<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_z2j_r4y_wj">
  <title>Configuration and Startup of Cluster Mode</title>
  <body>
    <note>
      When configuring a cluster mode, make sure that the mapping between the server and the host name is correct, details, refer to the <xref href="../../system_require/topics/software_en.dita">system configuration needs</xref> to ensure 
      that the communication between the nodes, the nodes of the firewall is turned off.
    </note>
    <p><b>Instruction：</b>
    </p>
    <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;(1) This section will introduce the steps of configuration and startup by taking
      highly accessible deployment as an example. </p>
    <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;(2) The follpwing steps is based on the fact that SequoiaDB is installed under the
      catalog "/opt/sequoiadb".</p>
    <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;(3) All of "sdb" service processes run as "sdbadmin", please ensure all of the database files
      have the "sdbadmin" read and write permission.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Step 1: Check the configuration service status of SequoiaDB.<p>Check the configuration
          service status of SequoiaDB in each database server:  service sdbcm status </p><p>If the
          system prompts "sdbcm is running", we can know that service is running, or please run the
          following command to reconfigurate service program: service sdbcm start</p></li>
      <li>Step 2: Start a temporary Coord node(this node is used for creating other nodes, and will be deleted after build success).<p>1. Switch to
          "sdbadmin"<codeblock>su sdbadmin </codeblock></p>
        <p>2. On any database server (the following steps are manipulated on this server), Start SequoiaDB Shell console</p><p><codeblock>/opt/sequoiadb/bin/sdb</codeblock></p>
        <p>3. Connect to local cluster management service process sdbcm.<codeblock>var oma = new Oma("localhost", 11790)</codeblock></p>
        <p>4. Create a temporary Coord Node.<codeblock>oma.createCoord(18800, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/coord/18800")</codeblock></p>
        <p>5. Start the temporary Coord node.<codeblock>oma.startNode(18800)</codeblock></p></li>
      <li>Step 3: Configurate and start catalog nodes with statements
        <p>1. 1.	Connect to the temporary Coord node, and insert instructions in Shell.</p><p><codeblock>> var db = new Sdb("localhost",18800)</codeblock>Here 18800 is the port number of this Coord node.</p>
        <p>2. Create a catalog node group</p><p><codeblock>> db.createCataRG("sdbserver1", 11800, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/cata/11800")</codeblock>
        </p><p>Here "sdbserver1" is the hostname of the 1st server.</p><p>Here "11800" is the
          service port of catalog node. (The port is configured not to conflict with a random port, other ports in the following configuration also requires attention. </p><p>" /opt/sequoiadb/database/cata/11800" is the path of
          data file of catalog node.</p>
        <p>3. Wait for 5 second, and add 2 more catalog nodes</p><p>
          <codeblock>> var cataRG = db.getRG("SYSCatalogGroup");      </codeblock>
        </p><p>
          <codeblock>> var node1 = cataRG.createNode("sdbserver2", 11800,"/opt/sequoiadb/database/cata/11800") </codeblock>
        </p><p>
          <codeblock>> var node2 = cataRG.createNode("sdbserver3", 11800,"/opt/sequoiadb/database/cata/11800")</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p>4. Start catalog node group <codeblock>> node1.start()
> node2.start()</codeblock></p><p>
          <note>
            <p>When creating a node, the first parameter should be "hostname", rather than IP of the
              host.</p>
          </note>
        </p></li>
      <li>Step 4: Configurate and start data nodes with statements<p>1. Create data node group</p><p>
          <codeblock>> var dataRG = db.createRG("datagroup")</codeblock>
        </p><p>2. Add data node</p><p>
          <codeblock>> dataRG.createNode("sdbserver1", 11820, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/data/11820")   </codeblock>
        </p><p>
          <codeblock>> dataRG.createNode("sdbserver2", 11820,"/opt/sequoiadb/database/data/11820")</codeblock>
        </p><p>
          <codeblock>> dataRG.createNode("sdbserver3", 11820, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/data/11820")</codeblock>
        </p><note>
          <p>When creating a node, the first parameter should be "hostname", rather than IP of the
            host.</p>
        </note><p>3. Start data node group</p><p>
          <codeblock>> dataRG.start()</codeblock>
        </p></li>
      <li>Step 5: Deploy and Start the Coord node.<p>1. Create coord replica group (CoordRG)<codeblock>var rg = db.createCoordRG()</codeblock></p>
        <p>2. Create Coord nodes.<codeblock>rg.createNode("sdbserver1", 11810, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/coord/11810")
rg.createNode("sdbserver2", 11810, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/coord/11810")
rg.createNode("sdbserver3", 11810, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/coord/11810")</codeblock></p>
        <p>3. Start the Coord nodes.<codeblock>rg.start()</codeblock></p></li>
      <li>Step6: Delete the temporary Coord node.
        <p>1. Connect to local cluster management service process sdbcm.<codeblock>var oma = new Oma("localhost", 11790)</codeblock></p>
        <p>2. Remove temporary Coord node.<codeblock>oma.removeCoord(18800)</codeblock></p>
          <p>End</p></li>      
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>