<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_1cj_f4m_5n">
  <title>db.collectionspace.collection.createIndex()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>createIndex - Create an index for the collection to accelerate query.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.collectionspace.collection.createIndex</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;name></parmname>,<parmname>&lt;indexDef></parmname>,<parmname>[isUnique]</parmname>,<parmname>[enforced]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Collection
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Create an index for the collection to accelerate query.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>name (string)</pt>
          <pd>Index name. It should be unique in a collection.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>indexDef (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Index key. It contains one or more objects that specify index fields and order
            direction. "1" means ascending order. "-1" means descending order.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>isUnique (Boolean)</pt>
          <pd>It shows whether the index is unique. The default value is "false". When it is "true", the index is unique.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>enforced (Boolean)</pt>
          <pd>Optional, whether the index is mandatorily unique or not. Its default value is false, and it becomes effective when "isUnique" is true. When it is true, it means that in the premise of "isUnique" is true, no more than one null index key can exist in this index.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Format</pt>
                <pd>The method "createIndex()" contains three parameters: "name", "indexDef" and "isUnique".
                  The value of  "name" should be in the type of string. The field "indexDef" is defined as a
                  JSON object, which contains at least one field. The field name is index name. The value of
                  it is 1 or -1. "1" means ascending order. "-1" means descending order. The parameter
                  "isUnique" is in the type of boolean. Its default value is "false".</pd>
                <pd>{"name":"&lt;index name>","indexDef":{"&lt;index field 1>":&lt;1|-1> [,"&lt;index field 2>":&lt;1|-1>...] },["isUnique":&lt;true|false>],["enfored":&lt;true|false>]}</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml></pd>
        </plentry>        
      </parml>
      <note>
        <p>
          <ul>
            <li>There should not be any exactly same records in the fields that are specified by the unique index in a collection.</li>
            <li>Index name should not be null string. It should not contain "." or "$". The length
              of it should be no more than 127B.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </note>
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Create an unique index named "ageIndex" on the field "age" in collection "bar". The records are
        in ascending order on the field "age".</p>
      <codeblock>db.foo.bar.createIndex("ageIndex",{age:1},true)</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>    
    <link href="cl.remove.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="cl.dropIndex.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
