<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_3wp_zgm_5n">
  <title>db.collectionspace.collection.remove()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>remove - Delete records from the current collection.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.collectionspace.collection.remove</apiname>(<parmname>[cond]</parmname>,<parmname>[hint]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Collection
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Delete records from the current collection.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>cont (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Selecting condition. If it is null, it will delete all the records. If it is not
            null, delete the records that match the condition.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>hint (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Specify access plan.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Format</pt>
                <pd>The "cond" is a json object. When it is null (e.g. {} ), delete all records in
                  the collection. "hint" is a json object that contains a single element. The field name of
                  this element is ignored. But the value of the field in it is specified as the name of index
                  which is needed to visit. When the value of field is null, it will visit all the records in
                  the collection.</pd>
                <pd>{[{"Field name 1":{"Match Operator 1":"value 1","Field name 2":{"Match Operator 2":"value 2"},...}],[{"":"index name"|null}]}</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml></pd>
        </plentry>        
      </parml>            
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Delete all the records in the collection "bar".</p>
      <codeblock>db.foo.bar.remove()</codeblock>
      <p>Delete records that match the condition in "cond" according to access plan.</p>
      <codeblock>db.foo.bar.remove({age:{$gte:20}},{"":"myIndex"})</codeblock>
      <p>This operation accesses all the records in the current collection according to the index named "myIndex", then it deletes all the records that match the condition(with a value greater than or equal to 20 in "age" field. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="cl.find.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="cl.createIndex.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>    
  </related-links>
</topic>
