<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zg5_cff_5n">
  <title>db.backupOffline()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>backupOffline - Backup Database.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.backupOffline</apiname>(<parmname>[options]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Backup Database.</p>
      <parml>        
        <plentry>
          <pt>options (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Specify the name of the backup, the replica group, and number of copies, etc.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>GroupID</pt>
                <pd>Specify the ID of the replica group need to be backup. Backup all replica groups in default.</pd>
                <pd>GroupID:1000 or GroupID:[1000, 1001]</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>GroupName</pt>
                <pd>Specify the name of the replica group need to backup. Backup all replica groups in default.</pd>
                <pd>GroupName:"data1" or GroupName:["data1", "data2"]</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Name</pt>
                <pd>Backup name, the default name is in the "YYYY-MM-DD-HH:mm:SS" time format.</pd>
                <pd>Name:"backup-2014-1-1"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Path</pt>
                <pd>Backup path, the default path is the one specified in the configuration. The path supports wildcards(%g%G: group name, %h%H:host name, %s%S:service name).</pd>
                <pd>Path:"/opt/sequoiadb/backup/%g"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>IsSubDir</pt>
                <pd>Whether the path configured in the above Path parameter is a subdirectory of the backup path in the configuration. False in default.</pd>
                <pd>IsSubDir:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Prefix</pt>
                <pd>Backup prefix, support wildcards (%g,%G,%h,%H,%s,%S), The default is empty.</pd>
                <pd>Prefix:"%g_bk_"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>EnableDataDir</pt>
                <pd>Whether to enable the date-subdirectory function or not. It will automatically create subdirectories with names in "YYYY-MM-DD" format according to the current date if the function is enabled. False in default.</pd>
                <pd>EnableDataDir:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Description</pt>
                <pd>Backup description</pd>
                <pd>Description:"First backup"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>EnsureInc</pt>
                <pd>Whether to enable incremental backup or not. False in default.</pd>
                <pd>EnsureInc:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>OverWrite</pt>
                <pd>Whether to overwrite the backups with the same name. False in default.</pd>
                <pd>OverWrite:false</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>      
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Back up the entire database.</p>
      <codeblock>db.backupOffline({Name:"FullBackup1"})</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>  
</topic>
