<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_knp_ytc_tn">
  <title>db.createCS()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>createCS - Create a collection space in a database instance.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.createCS</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;name></parmname>,<parmname>[options]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Create a collection space in a database instance.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>name (string)</pt>
          <pd>Collection space name. Collection space name should be unique to each other in a database instance.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>options (Json object)</pt>
          <pd>Optional in a collection space.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>PageSize</pt>
                <pd>Size of a data page. The default value is 65536B.</pd>
                <pd>PageSize:&lt;int32></pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Domain</pt>
                <pd>Domain that collection space belongs to.</pd>
                <pd>Domain:&lt;string></pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>LobPageSize</pt>
                <pd>Lob size of data page. The default value is 262144B.</pd>
                <pd>LobPageSize:&lt;int32></pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>          
        </plentry>        
      </parml>      
      <note>
        <ul><li>The parameter "name" should not be a null string. It should not contain "." or "$". The length of it should not be greater than 127B.</li>
          <li>Collection space names should be unique to each other in a database instance.</li>
          <li>When creating a collection space, users can specify the size of data page. It is unchangeable afterward. The default value of it is 65536B.</li>
          <li>PageSize can only be one of the following six: 0, 4096, 8192, 16384, 32768, and 65536. The default value is 0.</li>
          <li>Domain must already exist, and cannot be SYSDOMAIN.</li>
          <li>It is compatible with earlier version interface, and function db.createCS(&lt;name>, [PageSize]) can alsobe used.</li>
          <li>LobPageSize can only be one of the following nine: 0, 4096, 8192, 16384, 32768, 65536, 131072, 262144 and 524288, The default value is 262144.</li>
        </ul></note>
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Create a collection space named "foo" without specifying the size of data page, so its default page size will be 65536B.</p>
      <codeblock>db.createCS("foo")</codeblock>
      <p>Create a collection space named "foo", specify the size of the data page as 4096 and its domain as "mydomain".</p>
      <codeblock>db.createCS("foo",{PageSize:4096,Domain:"mydomain"})</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>    
    <link href="db.dropCS.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
