<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_npk_vkb_m4">
  <title>db.createDomain()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>createDomain - Create a domain.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.createDomain</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;name></parmname>,<parmname>&lt;groups></parmname>,<parmname>[options]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Create a domain. A domain can contain multiple replica groups.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>name (string)</pt>
          <pd>Unique domain name in the database.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>groups (Json Array)</pt>
          <pd>Replica groups belong to the domain.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>options (Json Object)</pt>
          <pd>Configuration options for creating a domain with different given fields.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>AutoSplit</pt>
                <pd>When this field is set to be True, all the hash-partitioning collection spaces created in this domain will be automatically splitted into the replica groups it belong to.</pd>
                <pd>AutoSplit:true|false</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>          
        </plentry>        
      </parml>      
      <note>
        <ul><li>AutoSplit can only apply to hash-partitioning collections.</li>
          <li>Cannot create collection spaces in an empty domain(domain with no replica groups).</li>          
        </ul></note>
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Create a domain which contains two replica groups.</p>
      <codeblock>db.createDomain('mydomain', ['datagroup1','datagroup2'])</codeblock>
      <p>Create a domain which contains two replica groups, and enables its auto-split function.</p>
      <codeblock>db.createDomain('mydomain', ['datagroup1','datagroup2'],{AutoSplit:true})</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
