<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_2vk_hmx_tn">
  <title>db.createCataRG()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>createCataRG - Create a new catalog replica group.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.createCataRG</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;host></parmname>,<parmname>&lt;service></parmname>,<parmname>&lt;dbpath></parmname>,<parmname>[config]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Create a new catalog replica group, create and start a catalog node at the same time.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>host (string)</pt>
          <pd>Specify the host name of the catalog node.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>service (int)</pt>
          <pd>Specify the service port of the catalog node, please make sure this port and its three succeeding ones are unoccupied. For example, if 11800 is specified, please make sure all of 11800/11801/11802/11803 are unoccupied.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>dbpath (string)</pt>
          <pd>The path for the data files which is used to store the catalog data files. Please make sure that the data administrator users(created during installation, 'sdbadmin' in default) have the write permissions.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>config (json)</pt>
          <pd>Optional. Used to set up more detailed configurations. It must be in Json format. For more details please check the Database Configuration section, for example the parameter for configuring of log file size: {logfilesz:64}.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Format</pt>
                <pd>createCataRG() method has four parameters: host, service, dbpath, and config. The value of 'host' and 'dbpath' should be a string, 'service' should be an int, and a Json Object for 'config', the format is:</pd>
                <pd>{"&lt;host name>",&lt;port number>,"&lt;data file path>",[database configuration parameter object]}</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>          
        </plentry>        
      </parml>      
      <note>
        <ul><li>Please make sure to give proper permissions to the data-file storage path, if default installation was used, then give the 'sdbadmin' permission to the path.</li>
        </ul></note>
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Named: Create a catalog node group on sdbserver1 host, service port: 11800, data files path: /opt/sequoiadb/database/cata/11800</p>
      <codeblock>db.createCataRG("sdbserver1", 11800, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/cata/11800")</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
