<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sj1_q1f_5n">
  <title>db.eval()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>eval - Fill in needed javaScript statements.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p>
      <apiname>db.eval</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;code></parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Fill in needed javaScript statements. And it can also invoke defined procedures.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>code (string)</pt>
          <pd>JavaScript statements or defined procedure functions.</pd>          
        </plentry>        
      </parml>
      <ul>
        <li>Return the results according to the statements If success. And the returned value can be directly assigned to anther variable. For example: <b>var a = db.eval(' db.foo.bar'); a.find(); </b></li>
        <li>Return the error code and error information if fail.: <b>{ "errmsg": "(nofile):1 ReferenceError: sum is not defined","retCode": -152 } </b></li>
        <li>Nothing will be returned until the function is completely finished. Exit during run time will terminate the entire execution, and code has been executed will not be rolled back.</li>
        <li>There is a limit on the length of returned value, for more information, please check "Maximum length of inserted record in SequoiaDB" section.</li>
        <li>Support the definition of temporary functions, for example: <b>db.eval(' function sum(x,y){return x+y;} sum(1,2)')</b></li>
        <li>The uses of global database are in the same way as createProcedure().</li>
      </ul>
      <note>The use of any print statements in the statements are not recommended even though all the outputs will be blocked.</note>
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p></p>Call a stored procedure function sum() in the eval() method.
      <codeblock>//sum() method does not exist at the time of initialization, return a exception information.
> var a = db.eval('sum(1,2)');
{ "errmsg": "(nofile):1 ReferenceError: getCL is not defined
", "retCode": -152 }
(nofile):0 uncaught exception: -152
//Initialization sum()
>db.createProcedure(function sum(x,y){return x+y;})
//Call the sum()
>db.eval('sum(1,2)')
3</codeblock>
      <p>Fill in javaScript statement in the eval() method</p>
      <codeblock>>var rc = db.eval("db.foo.bar")
>rc.find()
{
  "_id": {
    "$oid": "5248d3867159ae144a000000"
  },
  "a": 1
}
{
  "_id": {
    "$oid": "5248d3897159ae144a000001"
  },
  "a": 2
}...</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="db.listProcedures.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>    
  </related-links>
</topic>
