<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_lnd_lgy_tn">
  <title>db.list()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>list - Enumerate list.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.list</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;listType></parmname>,<parmname>[cond]</parmname>,<parmname>[sel]</parmname>,<parmname>[sort]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Enumerate list. List is a lightweight command to get the current system status.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>listType (Enumeration)</pt>
          <pd>listType, Please refer to List.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>cond (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Selecting condition. It just returns the records that match conditions in "cond". When it is null, return all records.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>sel (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Select fields to be returned. When it is null, return all the fields.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>sort (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Sort records. "1" means ascending order. "-1" means descending order.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Format</pt>
                <pd>The method "list()" contians 4 parameters: listType, cond, sel and sort. The parameter "listType" is in the type of enumeration. Other parameters are in the type of json object. The format is as follow:</pd>
                <pd>{"listType":"&lt;List type>",["cond":"{"field name 1":{"operator 1":"value 1"},"field name 2":{"operator 2":"value 2"}...}"],["sel":"{"field name 1":"","field name 2":"",...}"],["sort":"{"field name 1":-1|1,"field name 2":1|-1,...}"]}</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>          
        </plentry>        
      </parml>      
      <note>
        <ul><li>For more details on the value of "listType", please refer to List .</li>
          <li>The value of "sel" is in the type of json object. The value of field is often specified as a null string. If the parameters are specified in this format: "{"field name 1": "value 1", "field name 2":"value 2",...}", for the fields that do exist in the records, the value of these fields is actually useless; for the fields that do not exist in the records, "{"field name 1": "value 1", "field name 2":"value 2",...}" will be returned.</li>
          <li>If a value of a field is in the type of array, users can use "." to invoke it and add double quotation.</li>
        </ul></note>
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Specify the value of "listType" as SDB_LIST_CONTEXTS:<codeblock>db.list(SDB_LIST_CONTEXTS)</codeblock></p>
      <p>Return:</p>
      <codeblock>     {
        "SessionID": 4,
        "Contexts": [ 0 ]
        } ...</codeblock>
      <p>Specify the value of "listType" as SDB_LIST_STORAGEUNITS:<codeblock>db.list(SDB_LIST_STORAGEUNITS)</codeblock></p>
      <p>Return:</p>
      <codeblock>    {
        "Name": "foo", 
        "ID": 4094,
        "Logical ID": 1,
        "PageSize": 4096, 
        "Sequence": 1, 
        "NumCollections": 1,
        "CollectionHWM": 3,
        "Size": 172032000 
        } </codeblock>
      <p>
        <codeblock>db.list(SDB_LIST_STORAGEUNITS,{"Logical ID":{$gt:1}},{Name:"space",ID:2},{Name:1})</codeblock>
      </p>
      <p>Return the records that contain the value of "Logical ID" greater than 1. Each record just returns two fields: "Name" and "ID". The values of "Name" in these records are sorted in ascending order.</p>
      <codeblock>      {
        "ID": 4091,
        "Name": "foo" 
      } 
      {
        "ID": 4093,
        "Name": "name"
       }...</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="db.getRG.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="db.listCollectionSpaces.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
