<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hcy_v3f_5n">
  <title>db.listBackup()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>listBackup - View database backup.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>db.listBackup</apiname>(<parmname>[options]</parmname>,<parmname>[cond]</parmname>,<parmname>[sel]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>View database backup.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>options (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Specify the name of the backup, the replica group, and number of copies, etc.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>GroupID</pt>
                <pd>Specify the ID of the backup replica group to output. List all replica groups in default.</pd>
                <pd>GroupID:1000 or GroupID:[1000, 1001]</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>GroupName</pt>
                <pd>Specify the name of the backup replica group to output. List all the replica groups in default.</pd>
                <pd>GroupName:"data1" or GroupName:["data1", "data2"]</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Name</pt>
                <pd>Backup name, list all the backups in default.</pd>
                <pd>Name:"backup-2014-1-1"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Path</pt>
                <pd>Backup path, the default path is the one specified in the configuration. The path supports wildcards(%g%G: group name, %h%H:host name, %s%S:service name).</pd>
                <pd>Path:"/opt/sequoiadb/backup/%g"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>IsSubDir</pt>
                <pd>Whether the path configured in the above Path parameter is a subdirectory of the backup path in the configuration. False in default.</pd>
                <pd>IsSubDir:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Prefix</pt>
                <pd>Backup prefix, supports wildcards(%g,%G,%h,%H,%s,%S), default is empty.</pd>
                <pd>Prefix:"%g_bk_"</pd>
              </plentry>             
            </parml>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>cond (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Filter conditions.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>sel (json object)</pt>
          <pd>Output fields.</pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>      
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>View all database backup information.</p>
      <codeblock>db.listBackup()</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
