<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rfb_sqk_5n">
  <title>rg.createNode()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>createNode - Create a node in a replica group.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <p></p><apiname>rg.createNode</apiname>(<parmname>&lt;host></parmname>,<parmname>&lt;service></parmname>,<parmname>&lt;dbpath></parmname>,<parmname>[config]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      <p></p>ReplicaGroup
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Create a node in a replica group.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>host (string)</pt>
          <pd>Specify the host name of the node.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>service (string)</pt>
          <pd>Node port number.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>dbpath (string)</pt>
          <pd>Node path.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>config (json)</pt>
          <pd>Node's configuration information, such as, the size of configuration log, whether enable transaction function or not. For more details, please check DATABASE CONFIGURATION.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Format</pt>
                <pd>The method "rg.createNode()" contains 4 parameters: Host, Service, dbPath, config. The first three parameters in the above list are required and in the type of string, the last one is an optional json object configuration option.</pd>
                <pd>("&lt;Host>","&lt;service>","&lt;dbpath>",[{&lt;configParam>:value,...}])</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml></pd>
        </plentry>        
      </parml>      
    </section>    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Create a node with the port of 11800 in a replica group named "group", and specify the size of the log file as 64 MB.</p>
      <codeblock>rg.createNode("vmsvr2-suse-x64",11800,"/opt/sequoiadb/data/11800",{logfilesz:64})</codeblock>
      <note><p>More than one nodes can be created within one replica group.</p></note>      
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="rg.getDetail.dita"></link>
    <link href="rg.getMaster.dita"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
