<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hl1_nrx_wj">
  <title>Overview on Database Deployment</title>
  <body>
    <p>SequoiaDB is a completely distributed system architecture. It supports all kinds flexible
      deployment. In order to improve hardware and software performance, before installing system,
      we need to plan the deployment and the network connection. SequoiaDB supports 2 approaches of
        deployment:<ul id="ul_1rm_srx_wj">
        <li><p>Standalone mode</p>Start one business process that manipulate data. This mode
          supports high performance. It is easier to deploy. But the disadvantage is that it doesn't
          support distributed deployment or high-accessibility. It fits situation that has low
          amount of data and low total IOPS throughout, and requires low latency in single
          manipulation.<p/></li>
        <li>Cluster Mode<p>In this mode, the system can be deployed on multiple physical machines.
            It supports at most 300 physical machines.In cluster mode, catalog node, data node,
            coord node and Web management node (optional) should be deployed. As many as 65535
            logical nodes can be deployed on one physical machine.<note>Dependent mode can be
              shifted to cluster mode. In this process, the system will pause business processes
              which cost least than10 minutes. </note></p></li>
      </ul>Users can plan their deloyment according to data capacity, performance, reliability,
      cost. Here are some typical deploment approaches for reference.</p>
    <p>Actually, the approach of deployment can be very flexible. Users can combine different kind
      of deployment to meet their specific needs.</p>
    <p>
      <xref href="easiest_en.dita">Easiest Deployment</xref>
    </p>
    <p>
      <xref href="available_en.dita">High Availibility Deployment</xref></p>
    <p>
      <xref href="performance_en.dita">High Performance Deployment</xref></p>
  </body>
</topic>
