<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="developement_console_knack">
  <title>Tips When Using Shell</title>
  <body>
    <p>SequoiaDB shell has built-in help documents. It can be accessed by the help() command. For more details on each method, please refer to the SeuoiaDB JavaScript Method List in the Reference section of SequoiaDB Information Center.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Help<p>See Use description:</p>
        <codeblock>> help()
   var db = new Sdb()                     connect to database use default host 'localhost' and default port 11810
   var db = new Sdb('localhost',11810)    connect to database use specified host and port
   var db = new Sdb('ubuntu',11810,'','') connect to database with username and password
   help(&lt;method>)                         help on specified method, e.g. help('createCS')
   db.help()                              help on db methods
   db.cs.help()                           help on collection space cs
   db.cs.cl                               access collection cl on collection space cs
   db.cs.cl.help()                        help on collection cl
   db.cs.cl.find()                        list all records
   db.cs.cl.find({a:1})                   list records where a=1
   db.cs.cl.find().help()                 help on find methods
   db.cs.cl.count().help()                help on count methods
   print(x), println(x)                   print out x
   traceFmt(&lt;type>,&lt;in>,&lt;out>)            format trace input(in) to output(out) by type
   getErr(ret)                            print error description for return code
   clear                                  clear the terminal screen
   history -c                             clear the history
   quit                                   exit
   Takes 0.2993s.</codeblock>
        <note><p>SequoiaDB shell mainly includes 7 levels of operations: database (db), collection space (cs), collection (cl), cursor (cur), replica group (rg), node (nd), and domain (dm). Users need to understand the relationship between different levels. The operations of each level have its own help command:</p></note></li>            
      <li>Database Help <p>Database level's main operations are user group management, collection space, replica group, domain, snapshot, storage process, backup, transaction, SQL, and error tracing.</p>
        <p>Assume the database has been connected, and there is a javascript object named db which is an instance of the database.</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a database:</p><codeblock>db.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check a specific method of a database:</p><codeblock>db.help("method")</codeblock></li>
      <li>CollectionSpace Help<p>Collection Space level's main operation is the management on the collections.</p>
        <p>Assume there is a collection space named "foo".</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a collection space:</p><codeblock>db.foo.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check a specific method of a collection space:</p><codeblock>db.foo.help("method")</codeblock></li>
      <li>Collection Help<p>Collection level's main operations are CRUD, index management, data sharding, and management on the vertical partition table.</p>
        <p>Assume "foo" hypothesis in the set space exists in name as "bar" collection.</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a collection:</p><codeblock>db.foo.bar.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check a specific method of a collection:</p><codeblock>db.foo.bar.help("method")</codeblock></li>
      <li>Cursor Help<p>Cursor level's main operations are on the returned data.</p>
        <p>All the data are returned in the form of cursor when interacting with SequoiaDB engine in the shell command. For example, when execute a query using db.foo.bar.<xref href="../../../references/methods/topics_en_v2/cl.find.dita">find()</xref> method, a cursor object will be returned with all the query results in it.</p>
        <codeblock>db.foo.bar.find()</codeblock><p>or</p><codeblock>var cur = db.foo.bar.find()</codeblock>
        <p>The first one directly display all the results on the screen, the second one put the results into a cursor.</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a cursor:</p><codeblock>db.foo.bar.find().help()</codeblock><p>or</p><codeblock>cur.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check a specific method of a cursor:</p><codeblock>db.foo.bar.find().help("method")</codeblock><p>or</p><codeblock>cur.help("method")</codeblock>
        <p>The methods similar to find() that also return cursor are list(), snapshot(), etc.</p></li>
      <li>Replica Group Help<p>Replica group level's main operation is the management on the data node.</p>
        <p>Assume there is a replica group named "group1" in the database, a javascript object named rg which is a instance of a replica group is obtained by using "var rg = db.getRG("group1")" command.</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a replica group:</p><codeblock>rg.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check a specific method of a replica group:</p><codeblock>rg.help("method")</codeblock></li>
      <li>Node Help<p>Node level's main operation is the obtaining of the status information of data nodes.</p>
        <p>Assume creating a data node in the replica group named "group1" using "var rn = rg.createNode("ubuntu-dev1", 51000, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/data/51000")", a javascript object named rn which is an instance of the data node will be obtained.</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a node:</p><codeblock>rn.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check all the moethds of a node:</p><codeblock>rn.help("method")</codeblock></li>
      <li>Domain Help<p>Domain level's main operations are the modification of domains and the obtaining of the domain information.</p>
        <p>Assume creating a domain named "domain1" in the database using "var dm = db.createDomain("domain1",["group1","group2"],{AutoSplit:true})" command, a javascript object named dm which is an instance of domain will be obtained.</p>
        <p>Check all the methods of a domain:</p><codeblock>dm.help()</codeblock>
        <p>Check a specific method of a domain:</p><codeblock>dm.help("method")</codeblock></li>    
    </ul>
    <note>SequoiaDB's man page was added in Version 1.8. The previous versions do not support the help("method") function. Moreover, please make sure that there is a "troff" file under /opt/sequoiadb/doc/manual directory; otherwise, man page will not be displayed.</note>
    <p>Please visit <xref href="https://developer.mozilla.org//en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Language_Resources"></xref> to check all the automatically generated javascript function API documents provide by shell.</p>
  </body>
  <!--<body>
    <p>Sequoiadb shell has built-in help documents. It can be read through the command of
      help.<codeblock>> help()
   var db = new Sdb()                     connect to database use default host 'localhost' and default port 11810
   var db = new Sdb('localhost',11810)    connect to database use specified host and port
   var db = new Sdb('ubuntu',11810,'','') connect to database with username and password
   help(&lt;method>)                         help on specified method, e.g. help('createCS')
   db.help()                              help on db methods
   db.cs.help()                           help on collection space cs
   db.cs.cl                               access collection cl on collection space cs
   db.cs.cl.help()                        help on collection cl
   db.cs.cl.find()                        list all records
   db.cs.cl.find({a:1})                   list records where a=1
   db.cs.cl.find().help()                 help on find methods
   db.cs.cl.count().help()                help on count methods
   print(x), println(x)                   print out x
   traceFmt(&lt;type>,&lt;in>,&lt;out>)            format trace input(in) to output(out) by type
   getErr(ret)                            print error description for return code
   clear                                  clear the terminal screen
   history -c                             clear the history
   quit                                   exit
Takes 0.2993s.</codeblock></p>
    <ul>
      <li>Database Help <p>The command to check help document on database
        level:</p><codeblock>db.help()</codeblock></li>
      <li>CollectionSpace Help<p>The command to check help document of methods under collection
          space:<codeblock>db.&lt;collectionspace>.help()</codeblock></p></li>
      <li>Collection Help<p> The command to check help document of methods under collection
          :<codeblock>db.&lt;collectionspace>.&lt;collection>.help()</codeblock></p></li>
      <li>Cursor Help<p>In shell, when using <xref
        href="../../../references/methods/topics/find_en.dita">find()</xref> to read data in
          database, it uses all kinds of cursor methods and javascript method to cope with result
          set returned by the method find().</p><p>The command to check help document of methods
          manipulating
          cursor:<codeblock>db.&lt;collectionspace>.&lt;collection>.find().help()</codeblock></p></li>
    <li>Methods Help <p>Additionally, there is a skill to understand the function of functions. When
                    you type in the function name without brakets, it will show the javascript
                    source code of the function. For
                example:</p><codeblock>> db.foo.bar.find
function (query, select) {
    return new SdbQuery(this, query, select);
    }</codeblock></li>
    </ul>
    
    
    
    <p>Please visit <xref href="https://developer.mozilla.org//en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Language_Resources"></xref> to check all the automatically generated javascript function API
      documents provide by shell. </p>
  </body>-->
</topic>
