<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="administration_concepts_database_collection" >
  <title>Collection</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Concept</title>
    <p>Collection a logical object where documents are stored. Every document belongs to one and
        only one collection. </p>
    <p>Collection consists of "&lt;collection space name&gt;.&lt;collection name&gt;". The length of
        a collection name is at most 127 bytes, encoded with UTF-8. A collection contains zero or
        more documents. (The max amount of documents depends on the size of collection space.) </p>
    <p>In sharding enviroment, apart from name, every collection contains three attributes.</p>
    <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.99*"
      id="administration_concepts_database_collection_table1">-->
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Field Name</stentry>
        <stentry>Description</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>ShardingKey</stentry>
        <stentry>Specified sharding key. In collections, the field specified by sharding key is used
            as sharding information of document. Every document is put in its corresponding
            sharding.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>ShardingType</stentry>
        <stentry>Specified set partition type:range partitioning (Range) or hash partitioning (Hash).</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>ReplSize</stentry>
        <stentry>It specifies the default  replicaiton size in the collection. If its value is less
            than 1, write request will return when one copy is written successfully. If its value is
            more than 1, write request will return when the amount of successfully written copies
            euqals at least the value of ReplSize.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Compressed</stentry>
        <stentry>Specified the value of "Compressed" means whether stored data in compressed form,
            it has two values:true and false, false is in default.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
    </section>
  </body>  
  <related-links >
    <link href="document_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
    <link href="collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
    <link href="index_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
  </related-links>  
</topic>