<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_fpn_s1n_2l">
  <title>Eventually Consistent</title>
  <body>
    <p>In SequoiaDB, to improve data reliability and data read/write Splitting, we adopt "eventually
      consistent strategy" among ReplicaSets. Maybe, the data is not lastest in a moment, but
      ultimately the same.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Glossary</title>
      <p><b>W</b>：number of write-replicas</p>
      <p><b>R</b>：number of read-replicas</p>
      <p><b>N</b>：number of replicas</p>
      <p>In SequoiaDB, the value of "R" is default set to "1", and not configurable.</p>
      <p>By default, The master node in data ReplicaGroup will return immediately after processing a
        writen request, that is W=1. Data syn will be done asny in the background (<xref
          href="../../../database/topics/synlog_en.dita">Sys-log</xref>) and achieved eventually
        consistent. At this moment, the data for extenal read request may not be the lastest. In the
        case of less demanding data consistency, this way will provide a optimal
        write-performance.</p>
      <p>As the time of <xref href="../../../../references/methods/topics/createCL_en.dita">creating
          collection</xref>, you can set the value of "W" by "ReplSize" param.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>By default, W=1.</li>
        <li>If the value of ReplSize is equal "0", then the number of W will be changed based on the
          number of nodes in current ReplicaGroup. That is, there have three nodes in a ReplicaGroup at
          beginning, then W is equal 3; if adding a node, then W change to "4".</li>
        <li>If specify the number of W by manually, it can not exceed the number of nodes in current
          ReplicaGroup.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Increaing the value of W can effectively improve the consistency and reliability of
        data. When the value of W is equal to the number of  nodes in a ReplicaGroup and write-request
        is done seccessfully, then the data for read-request are always the lastest. But this will
        reduce the write-performance. For attention, although, the value of W can be set to equal to
        the number of nodes, it not mean that the data in SequoiaDB hava strong consistency. When a
        Relica write failed(such as the disk is full), it may exist one or more data versions in a
        RelicaGroup, this time, you may read the lastest data, and may also the older. When the failed
        replica get right, it will syn the lastest data from the master node, and achieve eventually
        consistent.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>