<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="administration_database_runtime">
	<title>Database Runtime Configurtion</title>
	<body>
		<section>
			<title>Parameter Instruction</title>
			<simpletable>
				<!--id="runtime_table" frame="all" relcolwidth="1.43* 1.0*1.18*11.41*"-->
				<sthead>
					<stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
					<stentry>Acronym</stentry>
					<stentry>Type</stentry>
					<stentry>Description</stentry>
				</sthead>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--help</stentry>
					<stentry>-h</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>Print help information</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--dbpath</stentry>
					<stentry>-d</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the path of data file.
             2. If it is not specified, the default path is current path.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--indexpath</stentry>
					<stentry>-i</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the path of index file
             2. If it is not specified, the default path is the same with &apos;dbpath&apos;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--confpath</stentry>
					<stentry>-c</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. Specified configuration file path (doesn&apos;t contain fiel name). The system will find under confpath.
             2. contains necessary configuration items. The format of a configuration item is &quot;parameter name=value&quot; like &quot;svcname=11810&quot; and &quot;diaglevel=3&quot;.
             3. If this parameter is not specified, system will automatically search for sdb.conf in current path.
             4. There may not be sdb.conf.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--logpath</stentry>
					<stentry>-l</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. Synchronous log files will be created when replication node does full sync. This parameter is used to specified the path of  synchronous log file.
             2. If it is not specified, the default path is &quot;Data file path/replicalog&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--diagpath</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the catalog of diagnostic log. 
             2. If it is not specified, the default path is &quot;Data file path/diaglog&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--diagnum</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the number of diagnostic log file. 
             2. If it is not specified, the default 20; -1 means unlimited.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--bkuppath</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the catalog of backup file.
              2. If it is not specified, the default path is &quot;Data file path/bakfile&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--maxpool</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the amount of thread in thread pool.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is 0.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--svcname</stentry>
					<stentry>-p</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies local service port.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value are 11810 for coord, 11800 for catalog, 11820 for datanode.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--replname</stentry>
					<stentry>-r</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies data synch port.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is &quot;svcname+1&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--shardname</stentry>
					<stentry>-a</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies shard port.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is &quot;svcname+2&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--catalogname</stentry>
					<stentry>-x</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies catalog port.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is &quot;svcname+3&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--httpname</stentry>
					<stentry>-s</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies http port.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is &quot;svcname+4&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--diaglevel</stentry>
					<stentry>-v</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the print level of diagnostic log. Diagnostic log in sequoiaDB, 0-5 respectively represent: SEVERE, ERROR, EVENT,WARNING, INFO, DEBUG.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is &quot;WARNING&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--role</stentry>
					<stentry>-o</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies serving role. In sequoiaDB, &quot;data/coord/catalog/standalone&quot; represents &quot;data node/coord node/catalog node/stand-alone machine&quot;.
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is &quot;standalone&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--catalogaddr</stentry>
					<stentry>-t</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the address of catalog node. The format is &quot;hostname1:catalogname1,hostname2:catalogname2,...&quot;.
             2. It should specify address of at least one catalog.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--logfilesz</stentry>
					<stentry>-f</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the size of sync log file. It is between 64(MB) and 2048(MB).
             2. If it is not specified, the default value is 64 (MB).</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--logfilenum</stentry>
					<stentry>-n</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the amount of synchronous log file.
              2. If it is not specified, the default value is 20.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--transactionon</stentry>
					<stentry>-e</stentry>
					<stentry>boolean</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies whether transaction turns on or not.
             2. If it is not specifed, the default value is false.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--numpreload</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The number of pre-loaders, default:0, value range:[0,100]</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--maxprefpool</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The maximum number of prefetchers, default:200, value range:[0,1000]</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--maxreplsync</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The maximum number of repl-sync threads, default:10, value range:[0, 200], 0:disable concurrent repl-sync</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--logbuffsize</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The number of pages ( in 64KB ) for replica log memory ( default:1024, value range:[512,1024000] ), the size should be smaller than log space</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--tmppath</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The path of temp files, default is &apos;dbpath&apos;+&apos;/tmp&apos;</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--sortbuf</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>Size of the sorting buf(MB), default:256, min value:128</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--hjbuf</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>Size of the hash join buf(MB), default:128, min value:64</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--syncstrategy</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>The control strategy of data sync in repl group, value enumeration: none,keepnormal,keepall, default:keepnormal.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--preferedinstance</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the instance on which to query.
             2. If it is not specifed, the default value is A.
             3. value enum:
                    M--read and write instance,
                    S--read only instance,
                    A--any instance,
                    1-7--the nth instance</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--numpagecleaners</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The number of page cleaner threads to start during database startup.
             0 means do not start any page cleaners, default 1, value range:[0, 50].</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--pagecleaninterval</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>num</stentry>
					<stentry>The minimum interval between two cleanup actions for each CS
             Unit: ms, Default: 10000, Min: 1000</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--lobpath</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>str</stentry>
					<stentry>1. It specifies the catalog of lob. 
             2. If it is not specified, the default path is &quot;Data file path&quot;.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--directioinlob</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>boolean</stentry>
					<stentry>If it is not spcified, the default value is &quot;false&quot;</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>--sparsefile</stentry>
					<stentry>--</stentry>
					<stentry>boolean</stentry>
					<stentry>If it is not spcified, the default value is &quot;false&quot;</stentry>
				</strow>
			</simpletable>
			<note>
				<p>SequoiaDB supports setting configuration with command line,configuration file, or both of them. When both of them are used, parameters in command line will overwrite those in configuration file.</p>
				<p>The total size of synch log (logfilesz * logfilenum)determines the fault tolerance in the process of sync. If log is bigger, the possiblity of full sync is lower.</p>
			</note>
		</section>
	</body>
</topic>
