<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_krl_jkn_2l_en">
  <title>Sync-Log</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Log Files</title>
      <p>In SequoiaDB, it with log for data synchronization among data nodes, the log files is in the
          directory<i> replicalog</i>. The size and number of log file can be configured by setting
          <i>logfilesz</i> and <i>logfilenum</i>, default is <i>64M</i> and <i>20</i>. It can't be
        modified if the params has entryed into force. (if you want to modify, you must delete all the
        log files off-line, reconfigure the params and restart SequoiaDB. But this will lead to
        full-sync.)</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Sync</title>
      <p>All slave nodes in data group will regularly packaged download the logs of other nodes to
        local for log replaying. Sync source is not limited to the master node. As we are hope the
        gap of data version in all nodes is in the range of a small window. When in the range of
        window, all the slave nodes synchronize to master node. But when the data version of some
        nodes is too larger differ from master node, they will select other slave nodes to
        synchronize. And if have conficted versions, be based on the current data verson of master
        node. If the confiction can't be solved, then enter into full-sync.No master node, no sync.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Full-sync</title>
      <p>Causes of triggering full-sync:</p>
      <p>1. downtime and restart.</p>
      <p>2. data version of some nodes is too large differ from other nodes.</p>
      <p>3. the data is inconsistent and can't be repaired. </p>
      <note>After restarting in mormal, If the data version is still in the range of
        synchronization, then it will not trigger full-sync.</note>
        <p>the node which experienced full-sync will clear all of local data and logs, and copy all
        of data in another node(not limit master node) in the group to local, as well as the changed
        data in sync source. The node in the time of full-sync does not provide services to
        external, and no master node, no sync. Full-sync will greatly affect the performance of data
        group, and even lead to lower the synchronous performance of other slave nodes. So adding
        shardings or increating log size to avoid full-sync for proposing.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
