<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nps_2jx_tk">
  <title>Create Coord Node</title>
  <body>
    <p>When the size of cluster expanding, coord node is alo need to added with the expansion of
      cluster.For advice, one physical node configure one coord node.</p>
    <p>1. create directory for the coord node configuration. </p>
    <codeblock>mkdir -p /opt/sequoiadb/conf/local/11810 </codeblock>
    <p>11810 is the service port of coord node, users can configure with the need. </p>
    <p>2. copy the sample configuration file of coord node. </p>
    <p>3. modify the configuration file.
      <codeblock>cp /opt/sequoiadb/conf/samples/sdb.conf.coord /opt/sequoiadb/conf/local/11810/sdb.conf   
vi /opt/sequoiadb/conf/local/11810/sdb.conf
modify content 
  # database path dbpath=/opt/sequoiadb/database/coord 
  this param is the path of database, can modify with need, please ensure the path is already exists(if not, manually create)
the following line 
  # catalog addr(hostname1:servicename1,hostname2:servicename2,...) 
  # catalogaddr= 
modify to
  # catalog addr(hostname1:servicename1,hostname2:servicename2,...)
  catalogaddr=sdbserver1:11803,sdbserver2:11803,sdbserver3:11803 
  this param is the service address and port of catalog</codeblock></p>
    <p>4. press :wq, save and quit vi. </p>
    <p>5. create the path where storage the data file. </p>
    <codeblock>mkdir -p /opt/sequoiadb/database/coord </codeblock>
    <p>the path is the previous step configured.</p>
    <p>6. start catalog node process. </p>
    <p><codeblock>/opt/sequoiadb/bin/sdbstart -c /opt/sequoiadb/conf/local/11810/ </codeblock></p>
  </body>
</topic>
