<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xwd_kfy_wj">
  <title>Software Requirement</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Linux System requirement</title>
      <ul>
        <li>System configuration requirement <p/><simpletable>
            <sthead>
              <stentry>Configuration Item</stentry>
              <stentry>Configuration method</stentry>
              <stentry>Verification method</stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow>
              <stentry>Set hostname</stentry>
              <stentry> 1. Log in with root privileges, perform hostname sdbserver1(sdbserver1 hostname can be modified as needed);<p></p><ul>
                <li>For SUSE: <p>2. Open the /etc/HOSTNAME file;</p><p>  vi /etc/HOSTNAME</p>
                  <p>3. Modify file contents, configured as a hostname;</p><p>  sdbserver1  (hostname)</p><p>4. Press :wq to save and exit;</p></li>
                <li>For RedHat: <p>2. Open the /etc/sysconfig/network file;</p><p>  vi /etc/sysconfig/network</p><p>3. HOSTNAME line will modify the HOSTNAME=sdbserver1, which sdbserver1 new hostname;</p> <p>4. Press :wq to save and exit;</p></li>
                <li>For Ubuntu: <p>2. Open the /etc/hostname file;</p><p>  vi /etc/hostname</p><p>3. Modify file contents, configured as a hostname;</p><p>sdbserver1</p>4. Press :wq to save and exit;</li>
              </ul></stentry>
              <stentry>Execute hostname command to verify whether the information is printed "sdbserver1" </stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>
                Enable server nodes to visit each other through hostname
              </stentry>
              <stentry>
                <ul>
                  <li>Log in the system in the role of root, open "/etc/hosts" with the command "vi
                    /etc/hosts"</li>
                  <li> Alter "/etc/hosts", set the mapping between hostname of server node and IP in
                    this file.<p> 192.168.20.200  sdbserver1</p><p> 192.168.20.201 
                      sdbserver2</p><p> 192.168.20.202  sdbserver3</p></li>
                  <li>Save and exit</li>
                </ul>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>Check with "ping sdbserver1"<p></p>Check with "ping sdbserver2"</stentry>
            </strow>
        </simpletable></li>
        <li><p>Close the firewall</p> <p/><simpletable>
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Configuration Item </stentry>
            <stentry>Configuration method</stentry>
            <stentry>Verification method</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow/>
          <strow>
            <stentry> Close the firewall</stentry>
            <stentry>Close the firewall operation, need administrator privileges.<p></p><ul>
              <li>For SUSE:<p>1. SuSEfirewall2 stop;</p>
                <p>2. chkconfig SuSEfirewall2_setup;</p></li>
              <li>For RedHat:<p>1. service iptables stop;</p><p>2. chkconfig iptables off;</p> </li>
              <li>For Ubuntu:<p>1. ufw disable;</p></li>
            </ul></stentry>
            <stentry><ul>
              <li>For SUSE:<p> chkconfig -list | grep fire;</p>
              </li>
              <li>For RedHat:<p>service iptables status;</p> </li>
              <li>For Ubuntu:<p>ufw status;</p></li>
            </ul></stentry>
          </strow>          
          <strow/>
        </simpletable></li>
      </ul>
      <note>Each database server should be configured.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Recommended configuration in Linux</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Adjusting ulimit<p>modify the configuration file "/etc/security/limits.conf
              ":</p><codeblock>#&lt;domain>      &lt;type>    &lt;item>     &lt;value>
*               soft      core       0
*               soft      data       unlimited
*               soft      fsize      unlimited
*               soft      rss        unlimited
*               soft      as         unlimited</codeblock><p><b>Params
              Description:</b></p><p><b>core</b>: The "core" file is generated as the time of
            database failure to troubleshooting, you had better close the system for
              advice.</p><p><b>data</b>: The size of data memory that database processes allow to
            allocate.</p><p><b> fsize</b>: The size of file that database processes allow to address. </p><p>
            <b>rss</b>: The max size of resident set that database processes allowed.
              </p><p><b>as</b>: The max amount of virtual memory addressing space that database
              processes allowed. </p>
          Set in the configuration file in /etc/security/limits.d/90-nproc.conf:<p>
            <codeblock>#&lt;domain>      &lt;type>    &lt;item>     &lt;value>
*               soft      nproc     unlimited</codeblock></p>
          <p><b>Explanation of parameters</b>:</p>
          <b>nproc</b>: The database allows the maximum number of threads limits;
          <note><p>1. Each database server should be configured.</p><p>2. It need to
              relogin after changing to be effective.</p></note></li>
        <li>Adjusting kernel params <p>1. Using the following command to output the current
            configuration of vm,and be placed on file.
          </p><codeblock>cat /proc/sys/vm/swappiness
cat /proc/sys/vm/dirty_ratio
cat /proc/sys/vm/dirty_background_ratio
cat /proc/sys/vm/dirty_expire_centisecs
cat /proc/sys/vm/vfs_cache_pressure
cat /proc/sys/vm/min_free_kbytes</codeblock>
          2. Adding the following params to the file of "/etc/sysctl.conf" to adjust kernel params.
            <codeblock>vm.swappiness = 0
vm.dirty_ratio = 100
vm.dirty_background_ratio = 40
vm.dirty_expire_centisecs = 3000
vm.vfs_cache_pressure = 200
vm.min_free_kbytes =  &lt;8% of physical memory size, unit is KB> </codeblock><note>When
            the available physical memory size of database isn't enough 8GB, doesn't need to set
            "vm.swappiness = 0". The dirty parameter is only recommended values, the system settings press principle (the control system of flush process using only the dirty page timeout 
            mechanism to refresh the new dirty page, instead of using a dirty page refresh ratio overruns dirty pages) set.</note> 
          3. Executing the following command to be
            effective.<codeblock>/sbin/sysctl -p</codeblock><note>Each database server should be
            configured.</note></li>
        <li>Database directory structure<p>The users had better put the directory of data, index, and
            log in different physical disks, to reduce the competition between sequential I/O and
            random I/O.</p></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
