<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sqy_zmg_xj">
  <title>Installation in Linux</title>
  <body>
    <p>Prompt: All the manipulations below are based on the fact that the defualt installation
      catalog of SequoiaDB is "/opt/sequoiadb"</p>
    <section>
      <title>Installation in SUSE</title>
    <p>
      <ul>
        <li>Log in the server, which is ready to install Web manage tool, in the role of
            "root".</li>
        <li>Decompress installation package (Here we take "apache2-linux-x64-installer.tar.gz" as
            example ) <p>
              <codeblock>tar –vxzf apache2-linux-x64-installer.tar.gz</codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Enter the catalog after decompression.<p>
              <codeblock>cd apache2</codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Run installation shell<p>
              <codeblock>chmod u+x install.sh 
./install.sh install      </codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Configurate PHP driver <p>
              <codeblock>vi /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini              </codeblock>
            </p><p>
              <codeblock>Add the following line</codeblock>
            </p><p>
              <codeblock>extension=/opt/sequoiadb/lib/libsdbphp.so          </codeblock>
            </p><p>
              <codeblock>Input ":wq" to save and exit</codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Copy Web file from sequoiadb installation catalog to the Web root catalog of apache <p>
              <codeblock>mkdir -p /srv/www/htdocs/sdbadmin          </codeblock>
            </p><p>
              <codeblock>cp -r /opt/sequoiadb/www/* /srv/www/htdocs/sdbadmin        </codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Start apache2 service <p>
              <codeblock>service apache2 start</codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Open the page.<p>
              <codeblock>Open "http://localhost/sdbadmin/index.php" with browser</codeblock>
            </p></li>
        <li>Finished</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Installation in Ubuntu</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Log in the server, which is ready to install Web manage tool, in the role of
          "root".</li>
        <li>Execute the following command and install apache2 and php5 according to prompts:
          <codeblock>apt-get install apache2
apt-get install php5</codeblock></li>
        <li>Change PHP configuration, load driver of
            SequoiaDB<codeblock>vi /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini</codeblock><p>Find the location of
            "Dynamic Extensions". Add the following
            line:</p><codeblock>extension=/opt/sequoiadb/lib/libsdbphp.so</codeblock><p>Input ":wq"
            to save and exit.</p></li>
        <li>Copy Web file to the Web root catalog of apache
          <codeblock>mkdir -p /var/www/sdbadmin
cp -r /opt/sequoiadb/www/* /var/www/sdbadmin/</codeblock></li>
        <li>Start apache2 serviece <p>
            <codeblock>service apache2 start</codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Open the page.<p>
            <codeblock>Open "http://localhost/sdbadmin/index.php" with browser.</codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Finished.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
