<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ht3_v2x_tk_en">
  <title>Create New Data Replica Group</title>
  <body>
    <note>If creating new nodes relate to create new master, please refer to the section <xref
        href="../../create_host_en.dita">Add master to cluster</xref> to complete the configuration
      of host name and params about master.</note>
    <p>It can configure many data replica groups in a cluster, the max configurable is 60000. By adding
      replica groups, you can take advantage of the physical device for horizontal
      expansion, Theoretically, SequoiaDB can do linear horizontal scalability.</p>
    <p>operation methods: </p>
    <codeblock>> var dataRG = db.createRG("datagroup1")
> dataRG.createNode("sdbserver1", 11820, "/opt/sequoiadb/database/data/11820")   
> dataRG.start()</codeblock>
    <p>The first command is used to create data replica group, and what different from catalog replica group is
      that this operation will not create any data node. The param is the name of data replica group. </p>
    <p>The second command is used to create a new node in the data replica group, many times as needed to
      execute this command to create more data nodes.</p>
    <p>amongs:</p>
    <p><b>host </b>: specify the host name of catalog node.</p>
    <p><b>service </b>: specify the service port of catalog node, please ensure this port and the next
      three ports are unoccupied; for example, if set port 11820, then ensure 11820/11821/11822/11823
      are unoccupied.</p>
    <p><b>dbpath</b>: data file path, be used to store catalog data files, please ensure that the data
      administrator user has write access.(created when installed, dafault <i>sdbadmin</i>).</p>
    <p><b>config </b>: optional param, be used to configure more detail params. the form is json. param
      list refer to the section <xref
        href="../../../../database/topics/runtime_configuration_en.dita">database
        configuration</xref>, for example configure the param of log size {logfilesz:64}.</p>
    <p>The third command is used to start data replica group, and it will start all the data nodes and
      provide sercices. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
