<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_wn5_4bd_fm">
  <title>Catalog Snapshot</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Description</title><p>Catalog Snapshot all the collections listed in the current database catalog information, each set a record.</p></section>
    <section><title>Sign</title><p>SDB_SNAP_CATALOG</p><note>Can only executed in the coord node.</note></section>
    
    <section><title>Field Information</title>
      <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 2.0*" id="administration_database_monitoring_snapshot_collections_data_table">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Field Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Name</stentry>
          <stentry>String</stentry>
          <stentry>Full name of collection</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>EnsureShardingIndex </stentry>
          <stentry>Bool</stentry>
          <stentry>Whether to automatically create an index for the partitioning key field.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ReplSize </stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
          <stentry>Modify operation performed when the number of copies to be synchronized. When performing an update, insert, delete records, and so, only
          when the specified <fig></fig>number of copies of the node to complete the operation returns only when the operation result.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ShardingKey </stentry>
          <stentry>Object</stentry>
          <stentry>Partitioning key definitions</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ShardingType </stentry>
          <stentry>String</stentry>
          <stentry>Data partition type:<fig></fig>range: Data by partition key range partitioning storage.<fig></fig>hash: Data according to a hash partitioning key to partition storage.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Version </stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the version number, the collection's metadata when performing a modify operation increments the version number (for example, data segmentation)
          </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>CataInfo. GroupID </stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
          <stentry>Partition group ID </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>CataInfo. GroupName </stentry>
          <stentry>String</stentry>
          <stentry>Partition group name</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>CataInfo. LowBound </stentry>
          <stentry>Object</stentry>
          <stentry>Data fragmentation range limit</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>CataInfo. UpBound </stentry>
          <stentry>Object</stentry>
          <stentry>Data slice interval lower limit</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Sample</title>
      <codeblock>> db.snapshot(SDB_SNAP_CATALOG)
{
  "_id": {
    "$oid": "5247a2bc60080822db1cfba2"
  },
  "Name": "foo.bar",
  "Version": 1,
  "ReplSize": 1,
  "ShardingKey": {
    "age": 1
  },
  "EnsureShardingIndex": true,
  "ShardingType": "range",
  "CataInfo": [
    {
      "GroupID": 1000,
      "GroupName": "datagroup1",
      "LowBound": {
        "": {
          "$minKey": 1
        }
      },
      "UpBound": {
        "": {
          "$maxKey": 1
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
