<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_35d_3bg_bp">
  <title>Database Cluster Nodes'Data Consistency Inspection Tool — sdbinspect</title>
  <body>
    <p>sdbinspect is a tool for inspecting the data consistency between nodes in SequoiaDB. It can inspect whether the data of two nodes are exact the same, and give a report for the result.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Authority Requirement</title>
      <p>No.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Connection Requirement</title>
      <p>sdbinsepct need to connect with database(coord nodes).</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Options</title>
      <simpletable>
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter</stentry>
          <stentry>Abbr.</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--help</stentry>
          <stentry>-h</stentry>
          <stentry>Return basic help documents.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--version</stentry>
          <stentry>-v</stentry>
          <stentry>Return current database version.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--action</stentry>
          <stentry>-a</stentry>
          <stentry>Inspect data or generate a report for existing middle files, inspect and report are optional, the default action is inspect.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--coord</stentry>
          <stentry>-d</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the hostname and service port of coord nodes, format is hostname:servicename (Must be set manually!)</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--loop</stentry>
          <stentry>-t</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the number of loop inspecting, default number is 5(times).</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--group</stentry>
          <stentry>-g</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the name of group you want to inspect, if not, system will inspect all the groups.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--collectionspace</stentry>
          <stentry>-c</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the name of collection space you want to inspect, if not, system will inspect all the spaces.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--collection</stentry>
          <stentry>-l</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the name of collection space you want to inspect, if not, system will inspect all the spaces. (Must set collection space before choose collection)</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--file</stentry>
          <stentry>-f</stentry>
          <stentry>Choose one existing(or the last inspected) result file to start a new inspection, when use this operation, other options(except -o) will be disable, enabled options are command options for saving the files.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--output</stentry>
          <stentry>-o</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the output file name, default is inspect.bin, report is inspect.bin.report.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--view</stentry>
          <stentry>-w</stentry>
          <stentry>Set the generated report content to be viewed as group mode or collection mode, default is group mode.</stentry>
        </strow>        
      </simpletable>
    </section>
    <section>     
      <title>Using</title>      
      <p>In the example below, sdbinspect will check all groups for 5 times in the coordinate node ubuntu-dev9:11810, then output the middle file result to item.bin, and analyze item.bin. Then the result will be outputted into item.bin.report.</p>
      <codeblock>sdbinspect -d ubuntu-dev9:11810 –o item.bin</codeblock>
      <p>In the example below, sdbinspect check all collection spaces 'sports' of the coord node ubuntu-dev9:11810 , and output the middle file result into item.bin. Also, it will analyze the item.bin file, at the same time and divide the result with collection, and output into item.bin.report.</p>
      <codeblock>sdbinspect -d ubuntu-dev9:11810 –o item.bin –c sports –w collection –t 3</codeblock>
      <p>In the following example, sdbinspect will check the collection item under sports CS that the CS is in data_group cluster of coord node ubuntu-dev9:11810. After that, the sdbinspect will output the middle file result into inspect.bin and analyze the file. Finally, the result will be divided with group and output into inspect.bin.report.</p>
      <codeblock>sdbinspect -d ubuntu-dev9:11810 –g data_group –c sports –l item</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
