<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_backupOffline" otherprops="troff">
  <title>db.backupOffline()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>backupOffline - backup database</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <apiname>db.backupOffline</apiname>(<parmname>[options]</parmname>)
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      Sequoiadb
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Backup database offline.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>options (object)</pt>
          <pd>Set the backup name, specify the replication group, backup and other parameters.
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>GroupID (number)</pt>
                <pd>Specified the backeup group by group's ID, if not specify, backup all the replica groups.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. GroupID:1000 or GroupID:[1000, 1001]
                </pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>GroupName (string)</pt>
                <pd>Specified the backeup group by group's name, if not specify, backup all the replica groups.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. GroupName:"data1" or GroupName:["data1", "data2"]</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Name (string)</pt>
                <pd>The name for this backup, default to use time format "YYYY-MM-DD-HH:mm:SS" to name.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. Name:"backup-2014-1-1"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Path (string)</pt>
                <pd>The path for this backup, default to use the path specified in configuration files. It supports wildcards (g%: group name, h%: host name, s%:service name).</pd>
                <pd>e.g. Path:"/opt/sequoiadb/backup/%g"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>IsSubDir (boolean)</pt>
                <pd>Whether the path specified above is a subdirectory of the path specified in the configuration files, default to be false.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. IsSubDir:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Prefix (string)</pt>
                <pd>The prefix name for this backup. It supports wildcards (g%,h%,s%). Default not to use prefix. </pd>
                <pd>e.g. Prefix:"%g_bk_"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>EnableDataDir (boolean)</pt>
                <pd>Turn on date subdirectory feature or not. If  so, it will get the current date and create subdirectory named "YYYY-MM-DD" automatically. Default to be false.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. EnableDataDir:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Description (string)</pt>
                <pd>The description for this backup.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. Description:"First backup"</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>EnsureInc (boolean)</pt>
                <pd>Whether to open an incremental backup, default to is false.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. EnsureInc:false</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>OverWrite (boolean)</pt>
                <pd>Whether the backup is covered when the same name exists, default to be false.</pd>
                <pd>e.g. OverWrite:false</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>RETURN VALUE</title>
      <p>On success, backupOffline() backup the database to the specified directory and return SDB_OK. On error, exception will be thrown.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>ERRORS</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SDB_INVALIDARG (-6)</dt>
          <dd>Invalid Argument</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SDB_BAR_BACKUP_EXIST (-240)</dt>
          <dd>Backup already exist</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>EXAMPLE</title>
      <p>Backup the whole database.</p>
      <codeblock>db.backupOffline({Name:"FullBackup1"})</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
