<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_createCL">
  <title>db.collectionspace.createCL()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.collectionspace.createCL(&lt;name>,[options])</title>
      <p>Create a collection in a specified collection space. Collection is a logical object which
        stores records. Each record should belong to on and only one collection.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Parameter Description</title>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>Parameter Name&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Parameter Type&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Description&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Not null</b></p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;name&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;string&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Collection name. Collection names should be unique to each other in a collection space.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;yes</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;options&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Json object&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;when create collection,you can set other properties about the collection through the param <i>options</i>,such as assigning the ShardingKey or whether storing the data in compressed form.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;no</p>
      <!--<simpletable id="references_method_createCL_table">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>name</stentry>
          <stentry>string</stentry>
          <stentry> Collection name. Collection names should be unique to each other in a collection space.</stentry>
          <stentry>yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>options</stentry>
          <stentry>option</stentry>
          <stentry> when create collection,you can set other properties about the collection through
            the param <i>options</i>,such as assigning the ShardingKey or whether <fig></fig>storing the data
            in compressed form.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>-->
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>The method "createCL()" contains 2 parameters: name and shardingkey. The value of "name" is
        a <i>string</i>, which should not be null. the param <i>options</i> be used to set other
        properties for the collection,at present,you can set the following properties by the
          <i>options</i>:</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>Options formats&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[ShardingKey]&nbsp;&nbsp;[ShardingType]&nbsp;&nbsp;[Partition]&nbsp;&nbsp;[ReplSize]&nbsp;&nbsp;[Compressed]&nbsp;&nbsp;[IsMainCL]</b></p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>ShardingKey</b></p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ShardingKey. Example: ShardingKey:{&lt;field name1>:&lt;1|-1> [,&lt;field name2>:&lt;1|-1>, ...]}</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>ShardingType</b> </p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ShardingType specify the way of sharding, "Range Sharding" is in default. Example: ShardingType:"hash"|"range"</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>Partition</b> </p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Specify the number of slices, only fill in Hash Sharding.[2^3, 2^20]. Example: Partition:&lt;Partition>]</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>ReplSize</b> </p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Copy number: a json form param. Example: ReplSize:&lt;int num></p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>Compressed</b> </p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A json form param. Example: Compressed:true|false</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b>IsMainCL</b> </p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Primary partition collection. Identifies whether the primary partition the set, the default is no. Example: IsMainCL:true|false</p>
      <!--<p>(1)ShardingKey: a json form param,the format is:{ShardingKey:{field name1:1|-1,field
        name2:1|-1,...}, {ShardingType:"hash"}  [, {Partition:&lt;number of slices>}]}，ShardingType
        specify the way of sharding,"Range Sharding" is in default;"Partition" specify the number of
        slices,only fill in Hash Sharding.</p>
      <p>(2)copy number: a json form param,the format is:{ReplSize:&lt;int num>}</p>
      <p>(3)data commpressed:a json form param,the format is:{Compressed:true|false}</p>
      <p><codeblock>{"name":"&lt;collection name>",[options]} </codeblock></p>-->
      <note>
        <ul>
          <li>The parameter "shardingkey" is a JSON object. Each of the fields in the JSON object
            corresponds to that in shard key. The value is 1 or -1, representing ascending and
            descending order.</li>
          <li>The parameter "ReplSize" is a JSON object,the value of it is a <i>int</i> type,Be used
            to set the number of writed data nodes, the value can not be greater than the number of
            nodes in the current data group.</li>
          <li>The parameter "Compressed" is a JSON object,the value of it is <i>boolean </i>type,if
            the value is "true",then standing for the data of the collection will be stored in
            compressed form ,otherwise,data will be stored in normal .</li>
          <li>when the <i>options</i> have one or more params,please use comma(,) to separate.</li>
          <li>The value of "name" should not be null string, "." or "$". The length of it should not
            be greater than 127B, or exception will occur. </li>
        </ul> 
      </note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Create collection "bar" in collection space "foo" without shard key. If the collection
            space "foo" doesn't exist, it will automatically generate collection space "foo".</p>
          <codeblock>db.foo.createCL("foo")</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Create collection "bar" in collection space "foo" with the shard key "age" and in
            ascending order.</p>
          <codeblock>db.foo.createCL("bar",{age:1})</codeblock>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="resetSnapshot_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="getCL_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collection_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
