<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_createCS">
  <title>db.createCS()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.createCS(&lt;name>,[pageSize])</title>
      <p>Create a collection space in a database instance.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.04* 1.1* 5.7* 1.0*"
        id="references_method_createCS_table">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>name</stentry>
          <stentry>string</stentry>
          <stentry>Collection space name. Collection space names should be unique to each other in a
            database object.</stentry>
          <stentry>yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>pageSize</stentry>
          <stentry>int(32)</stentry>
          <stentry>Size of data page. The default value is 65536B.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>Users can create a collection space with 2 parameters: name and pageSize.The parameter
        "name" is in the type of string. The parameter "pageSize" is in the type of 32-bit
        integer</p>
      <p><codeblock>("&lt;collection space name>",[pagesize])</codeblock></p>
      <note>
        <ul>
          <li>The parameter "name" should not be null string. It should not contain "." or "$". The
            length of it should not be greater than 127B.</li>
          <li>Collection space names should be unique to each other in a database object.</li>
          <li>When creating a collection space, users can specify the size of data page. It is
            unchangable afterward. The default value of it is 65536B.</li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
      <ul>
        <li><p>Create a collection space named "foo" without specifying the size of data page.</p>
          <p><codeblock>db.createCS("foo")</codeblock></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Create a collection space named "foo" and specify the size of data page as 1024.</p>
          <p><codeblock>db.createCS("foo",1024)</codeblock></p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="dropCS_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
