<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_createIndex">
  <title>db.collectionspace.collection.createIndex()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.collectionspace.collection.createIndex(&lt;name>,&lt;indexDef>,[isUnique])</title>
      <p>Create <xref href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/index_en.dita"
          >index</xref> in a collection to accelerate query.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.13* 5.67* 1.16*"
        id="references_method_createIndex_table">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>name</stentry>
          <stentry>string</stentry>
          <stentry>Index name. It should be unique in a collection.</stentry>
          <stentry>yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>indexDef</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Index key. It contains one or more objects that specify index fields and order
            direction. "1" means ascending order. "-1" means descending order.</stentry>
          <stentry>yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>isUnique</stentry>
          <stentry>Boolean</stentry>
          <stentry>It shows whether the index is unique. The default value is "false". When it is
            "true", the index is unique.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>The method "createIndex()" contains three parameters: "name", "indexDef" and "isUnique".
        The value of  "name" should be in the type of string. The field "indexDef" is defined as a
        JSON object, which contains at least one field. The field name is index name. The value of
        it is 1 or -1. "1" means ascending order. "-1" means descending order. The parameter
        "isUnique" is in the type of bool. Its default value is "false".</p>
      <p><codeblock>{"name":"&lt;index name>","indexDef":{"&lt;index field 1>":&lt;1|-1> [,"&lt;index field 2>":&lt;1|-1>...] },["isUnique":&lt;true|false>]}</codeblock></p>
      <note>
        <p>
          <ul>
            <li>Values on the field that an unique index specified should not be the same in
              defferent records.</li>
            <li>Index name should not be null string. It should not contain "." or "$". The length
              of it should not be lesser than 127B.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
        <ul>
          <li><p>Create an unique index named "ageIndex" on the field "age" in collection "bar". The records are
            in ascending order on the field "age".</p>
            <codeblock>db.foo.bar.createIndex("ageIndex",{age:1},true)</codeblock>
          </li>
        </ul>
     
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/index_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collection_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="remove_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="dropIndex_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
