<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_c24_4lb_hm">
  <title>db.collectionspace.collection.insert()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.collectionspace.collection.insert(&lt;doc|docs>,[flag])</title>
      <p>Insert records into specified collection. If collection space or collection doesn't exist,
        please create a new collection space. For example, the command "db.createCS("foo")" creates
        a new collection space named "foo". Then create a new collection in collection space. For
        instance, the command "db.foo.createCL("bar")" creates a collection named "bar" under the
        collection space "foo" so that users can insert data into the collection "bar".</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.05* 8.15* 1.0*"
        id="references_method_insert_table">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>doc|docs</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Document record. The parameter "doc" means one record. The parameter "docs" means
            more than one record. </stentry>
          <stentry>yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>flag</stentry>
          <stentry>Int</stentry>
          <stentry>The paremeter "flag" means whether the value of "_id" should be showed. The value
            of it is SDB_INSERT_CONTONDUP or SDB_INSERT_RETURN_ID. It is only be effective when
            insert one document.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>The definition of "insert()" contains two fields: doc|docs and flag. The parameter
        "doc|docs" is in the type of JSON object. The parameter "flag" is in the type of int. The
        value of "flag" is SDB_INSERT_CONTONDUP or SDB_INSERT_RETURN_ID,when you want to insert one
        document and  set it as  SDB_INSERT_RETURN_ID,then it will return a value of _id  of the
        document;if you set SDB_INSERT_CONTONDUP,return nothing; </p>
      <p>doc：<codeblock>({"&lt; field name 1&gt;":"&lt; value &gt;","&lt; field name 2&gt;":"&lt; value &gt;",…}[,SDB_INSERT_CONTONDUP|SDB_INSERT_RETURN_ID })</codeblock></p>
      <p>
        docs：<codeblock>([
  {"&lt; field name 1&gt;":"&lt; value &gt;","&lt; field name 2&gt;":"&lt; value &gt;",…},
  {"&lt; field name 1&gt;":"&lt; value &gt;","&lt; field name 2&gt;":"&lt; value &gt;",…},...
 ])</codeblock>
      </p>
      <note>
        <p><ul>
          <li>If the value of "_id" is not specified in a record that is about to be inserted, the
            system will generate the value of "_id" automatically to ensure the uniqueness of the
            record.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Insert a record without the value of "_id".</p>
          <codeblock>db.foo.bar.insert({name:"Tom",age:20})</codeblock>
          <p>This operation inserts a new record into collection "bar". In this record, the value
            of "name" is "Tom", and the value of "age" is 20. The value of "_id" is uniquely
            generated:</p>
          <codeblock>{ "_id": { "$oid": "515152ba49af395200000000" }, "name": "Tom", "age": 20 }</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Insert a record that contains the value of "_id".</p>
          <codeblock>db.foo.bar.insert({_id:10,age:20})</codeblock>
          <p>This operatin inserts a new record into the collection "bar". The value of "_id" is
            10. The value of "age" is 20:</p>
          <codeblock>{ "_id": 10, "age": 20 }</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Insert more than one record.</p>
          <codeblock>db.foo.bar.insert([{_id:20,name:”Mike”,age:15},{name:”John”,age:25,phone:123}])</codeblock>
          <p>This operation will insert 2 records into the collection "bar":</p>
          <p>1)In the first record, the value of "_id" is 20. The value of "name" is "Mike". The
            value of "age" is 15.</p>
          <p>2)In the second record, teh value of "_id" is generated by the system. The value of
            "name" is "John". The value of "age" is 25. The value of "phone" is 123.</p>
          <codeblock>     {
        "_id": 20, 
        "name": "Mike", 
        "age": 15 
        }</codeblock><codeblock>     { 
        "_id": { "$oid": "5151557a49af395200000001" }, 
        "name": "John", 
        "age": 25, 
        "phone": 123 
        }</codeblock>
        </li>
      </ul>              
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="dbcount_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="find_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collection_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
