<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_find">
  <title>db.collectionspace.collection.find()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.collectionspace.collection.find([cond],[sel])</title>
      <p>The method "find()" selects records that users need. It will return a cursor. In Sequoiadb,
        a  cursor is a pointer which point to a query result set. The client can go through teh
        query results.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.31* 11.32* 1.34*"
        id="references_method_find_table">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>cond</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Selecting condtion. If it is null, it will find all the records. If it is not
            null, it will find records that matches the condition.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sel</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry> It chooses fields to be returned. If it is null, it will return all the
            records.If a field doesn't exist, it will return null string.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>The definitin of "find()" contains 2 parameters: cond and sel, which are both in the type
        of JSON object. The parameter "cond" specifys the matching condition. The parameter "sel"
        specifys the fields to be returned.</p>
      <p><codeblock>{[{"field name 1":{<xref href="../../console/topics/console_en.dita">"match 1"</xref>:"value 1","field name 2":{"match 2":"value 2"},...}],[{"field name 1":"","field name 2":"",..}]}</codeblock></p>
      <note>
        <p>The parameter "sel" is in the type of a json object. The value of the field is null
          string. But if it is specified as :{"field name 1":"value 1","field name 2":"value 2",...}
          and records conain choosed field, the values are invalid. If fields specified in "sel"
          don't exist, it will return "{"field name 1":"value 1","field name 2":"value 2",...}".</p>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Sample</title>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Find all the records without specifying the field "cond" and "sel".</p>
            <codeblock>db.foo.bar.find()</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Find records that matches the value of the parameter "cond".</p>
            <codeblock>db.foo.bar.find({age:{<xref href="../../console/topics/gt_en.dita">$gt</xref>:25},name:"Tom"})</codeblock>
            <p>This operation will return records that contains the value of "age" greater than 25
            and the value "Tom" on the field "name".</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Specify the fields to return by setting the content of the parameter "sel".For
            example, there are 2 records: "{age:25,type:"system"}" and
            "{age:20,name:"Tom",type:"normal"}".</p>
            <codeblock>db.foo.bar.find(null,{age:"",name:""})</codeblock>
            <p>This operation return the value of "age" and "name". So it will
            return:"{age:25,name:""}，{age:20,name:"Tom"}". Although the first record doesn't contain
            the field, it will return "name:""".</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="dbinsert_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="remove_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collection_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
