<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_snapshot">
  <title>db.snapshot()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.snapshot(&lt;snapType>,[con],[sel],[sort])</title>
      <p>It lists snapshots. Snapshot is a kind of command used to get the current status of
          system.<xref href="../../../administration/database/topics/monitoring_en.dita">Click here
          to learn more about snapshot.</xref>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable><!--frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.2* 6.29* 1.38*" id="references_method_snapshot_table">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>snapType</stentry>
          <stentry>List</stentry>
          <stentry><xref href="../../../administration/database/topics/monitoring_en.dita">Snapshot
              type</xref>, the value of snapshot type is in the range from 0 to 7.</stentry>
          <stentry>Yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>con</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Selectable condition. It just returns records that matches the value of "con". If
            it is null, it  returns all records.</stentry>
          <stentry>No</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sel</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Select returned field name. If it is null, return all the fields</stentry>
          <stentry>No</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sort</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Sort records according to specified field. "1" means ascending order. "-1" means
            descending order.</stentry>
          <stentry>No</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>The defination of the method "snapshot()" contains four fields: listType、con、sel、sort. The
        type of "listType" is enumeration. Other fields are json objects. The format is as
        follow:</p>
      <codeblock>{"snapType":"&lt;snapshot type>",["con":"{"Field name 1":{"operation 1":"value 1"},"Field name 2":{"Operation 2":"value 2"}...}"],
["sel":"{"Field name 1":"","Field name 2":"",...}"],["sort":"{Order:-1|1}"]}</codeblock>
      <note>
        <ul>
          <li>The value of snapType is in the range from 0 to 7.</li>
          <li>The parameter "sel" is a json object. The value of field name is specified as null
            string. It is defined as: {"Field name 1":"value 1","Field name 2":"value 2",...}.If the
            records contain the specified field names, the values are invalid. If the records don't
            contain specified fields, it returns "{"Field name 1":"value 1", "Field name 2":"value
            2"}".</li>
          <li>If the value of a field is in the type of array. We invoke the elements in it through
            "." and double quotations. </li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Set the value of "snapType" as 0:<codeblock>db.snapshot(0)</codeblock></p>
          <p> Returns context snapshot:</p>
          <codeblock>{
        "SessionID": 3,
        "Contexts": [ 
         {
           "ContextID": 1, 
           "DataRead": 0, 
           "IndexRead": 0, 
           "QueryTimeSpent": 0, 
           "StartTimestamp": "2013-04-08-17.17.02.135620" 
         }
        ]
      } 
      </codeblock>
        </li>
        <li><p>
            <codeblock>db.snapshot(0,{"Contexts.0.ContextID":{$gte:0}},{SessiomID:"","Contexts.0.StartTimestamp":""},{SessionID：1})</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>Return records that contain the value of "Contexts.0.ContextID" equal to 0, and just
            return values in the 2 field, SessiomID and Contexts.StartTimestamp. The returned
            records are in ascending order: </p>
          <codeblock>{ 
        "Contexts": [ 
         {
           "StartTimestamp": "2013-04-09-09.31.03.270965" 
         } 
        ],
        "SessionID": 5 
      } </codeblock></li>

      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="listReplicaGroups_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
    <link href="resetSnapshot_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
    <link href="../../../administration/database/topics/EDU_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
    <link href="../../console/topics/console_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
