<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_createCL" otherprops="troff">
  <title>db.collectionspace.createCL()</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>NAME</title>
      <p>createCL - create a new collection</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>SYNOPSIS</title>
      <apiname>db.collectionspace.createCL</apiname>(<parmname>name</parmname><parmname>,
        [options]</parmname>) </section>
    <section>
      <title>CATEGORY</title>
      Collectionspace
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DESCRIPTION</title> 
      <p>Create a collection in a specified collection space.</p>
      <p>Collection is a logical object which stores records. Each record should belong to on and only one collection.</p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>name (string)</pt>
          <pd>The name of the collection, should be unique to each other in a collectionspace.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>options (object)</pt>
          <pd>The parameters of the collection, could be a combination of the following options
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt>ShardingKey (object)</pt>
                <pd>The sharding key of the collection.</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>ShardingType (string)</pt>
                <pd>The sharding type of the collection, could be one of the following
                  <parml>
                    <plentry>
                      <pt>"hash"</pt>
                      <pd>Sharding by hash</pd>
                    </plentry>
                    <plentry>
                      <pt>"range"</pt>
                      <pd>Sharding by range</pd>
                    </plentry>
                  </parml>
                </pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Partition (number)</pt>
                <pd>Specify the number of slices, only valid for { ShardingType:"hash" }</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>ReplSize (number)</pt>
                <pd>Number of WriteConcern. Minimum 0 and maximum 7.
                  <parml>
                    <plentry>
                      <pt>0</pt>
                      <pd>WriteConcern equal to the number of nodes in each replica group</pd>
                    </plentry>
                    <plentry>
                      <pt>1 - 7</pt>
                      <pd>WriteConcern = 1-7</pd>
                    </plentry>
                  </parml>
                </pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>Compressed (boolean)</pt>
                <pd>ompress the collection or not</pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt>IsMainCL (boolean)</pt>
                <pd>Partitioned collection</pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>
      <note>
        <ul>
          <li>The parameter "ShardingKey" is a JSON object. Each of the fields in the JSON object
            corresponds to that in shard key. The value is 1 or -1, representing ascending and
            descending order.</li>
          <li>The parameter "ReplSize" is a JSON object,the value of it is a <i>int</i> type,Be used
            to set the number of writed data nodes, the value can not be greater than the number of
            nodes in the current data group.</li>
          <li>The parameter "Compressed" is a JSON object,the value of it is <i>boolean </i>type,if
            the value is "true",then standing for the data of the collection will be stored in
            compressed form ,otherwise,data will be stored in normal .</li>
          <li>when the <i>options</i> have one or more params,please use comma(,) to separate.</li>
          <li>The value of "name" should not be null string, "." or "$". The length of it should not
            be greater than 127B, or exception will occur. </li>
        </ul> 
      </note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>RETURN VALUE</title>
      <p>On success, createCL() creates a new collection and return the object. On error, exception will be thrown.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>ERRORS</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SDB_OOM (-2)</dt>
          <dd>Unable to allocate memory for creating collection</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SDB_NOSPC (-11)</dt>
          <dd>Out of space</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SDB_DMS_EXIST (-22)</dt>
          <dd>Collection already exist</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SDB_DMS_CS_NOTEXIST (-34)</dt>
          <dd>Collection space does not exist</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>EXAMPLE</title>
      <p>Create collection "bar" in collection space "foo" without shard key. If the collection space "foo" doesn't exist, it will automatically generate collection space "foo".</p>
      <codeblock>db.foo.createCL("foo")</codeblock>
      <p>Create a compressed normal collection "bar" in collection space "foo" with the hash shard key "age" and in ascending order, using 65535 partitions with writeconcern 1.</p>
      <codeblock>db.foo.createCL("bar",{ShardingKey:{age:1},ShardingType:"hash", Partition:65535, ReplSize:1, Compressed:true, IsMainCL:false})</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="resetSnapshot_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="getCL_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collection_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="../../../administration/concepts/database/topics/collectionspace_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
