<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="references_method_update">
  <title>db.collectionspace.collection.update()</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>db.collectionspace.collection.update(&lt;rule>,[cond],[hint])</title>
      <p>Update records in a collection.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable id="references_method_update_table">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Parameter Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Not null</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>rule</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Update rule. Records will be updated according the value of "rule".</stentry>
          <stentry>yes</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>cond</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>Selecting condition. If it is null, update all the records. If it is not null, it
            will update records that match the condition.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>hint</stentry>
          <stentry>json object</stentry>
          <stentry>It specify the visiting plan by giving an index.</stentry>
          <stentry>no</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <p>The method "update()" should contains the field "rule". It is a json object. The parameter
        "cond" and "hint" are selectable. The parameter "hint"</p>
      <p>contains one json object that contains one field. The "name" in this field is ignored, but
        the value specify the index to visit records. When the value is </p>
      <p>null, it will visit all the records in the collection. The format is "{"":null}" or
        "{"":"&lt;indexname>"}".</p>
      <p><codeblock>{&lt;{"<xref href="../../console/topics/console_en.dita">"Update character 1"</xref>":{field name 1:"value"},"Update character 2":{"field name 2":"value 2"},...}>,[{"field name 1":{<xref href="../../console/topics/console_en.dita">"match 1"</xref>:"value 1"},"field name 2":{"match 2":"value 2"},...}],[{"":"Index name"|null}]}</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Sample</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Update all the records according to the updating rule. That's to say, we merely set the
            value of "rule", but not "cond" or "hint".</p>
          <p><codeblock>db.foo.bar.update({<xref href="../../console/topics/inc_en.dita">$inc</xref>:{age:1}})</codeblock></p>
          <p>This operation updates the field "age" in collection "bar" by adding 1 to the value of
            "age".</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Select records that match the condition. Update these records according to update rules
            by setting the values of "rule" and "cond". </p>
          <p><codeblock>db.foo.bar.update({<xref href="../../console/topics/unset_en.dita">$unset</xref>:{age:""}},{age:{<xref href="../../console/topics/exists_en.dita">$exists</xref>:1},name:{$exists:0}})</codeblock></p>
          <p>This operation will update records that contains the field "age" but not the field
            "name" in collection "bar" and delete the field "age" in these records.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Update records according to visiting plan, supposing that the collection contains the
            specified index name.</p>
          <codeblock>db.foo.bar.update({<xref href="../../console/topics/inc_en.dita">$inc</xref>:{age:1}},{age:{<xref href="../../console/topics/gt_en.dita">$gt</xref>:20}},{"":"testIndex"})></codeblock>
          <p>This operation visit records that contains the value of "age" greater than 20 in the
            collection "bar" through the index "testIndex". Add 1 to the field of "age".</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>

  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="listIndexes_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
    <link href="upsert_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
