<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rgq_cbz_fm">
  <title>PHP Dirver</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Outline</title>
      <p>SequoiaDB PHP driver provides a PHP interface to database operations, and cluster operations. Database operations, including connectivity, users create 
        a database to delete, add or delete data to the inverstigation, remove the index is created, the snapshot acquisition and replacement, as well as the creation of 
        collections and collection space deletion operations. Cluster operations including operations management and data nodes replica groups, such as starting, 
        stopping replica groups, start, stop data nodes, obtain data from the master node, a collection of films.</p>
      <p>There are two types of driving PHP instance. A <b>database coperation</b>, another <b>operation for the cluster</b>.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Examples of database operations <p>SequoiaDB stored in the database is divided into three levels:</p><p><b>1) Database</b></p><p><b>2) collection of space</b>
        </p><p><b>3) collection </b></p><p>There fore, in the operation of the database, the available three classes to represent each connection, a collection of space, 
          collection instance, another instance of a class represents a cursor:</p><simpletable>
          <strow>
            <stentry>SequoiaDB</stentry>
            <stentry>Database class</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>SequoiaCS </stentry>
            <stentry>collection space class </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>SequoiaCollection </stentry>
            <stentry>collections </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>SequoiaCursor</stentry>
            <stentry>cursor calss</stentry>
          </strow>
          </simpletable><p>PHP driver needs to use a different instance to operate. For example, the operation requires a cursor to read the data instances, and create a 
            table space is required database instance.</p></li>
        <li>Examples of cluster operation <p>SequoiaDB cluster operations are divided into two
          levels: 1) replica group 2) data nodes </p><note>
            <p>Replica group package of three types: Coordination replica group, cataloging
              replica group, the data replica group.</p>
          </note><p>Replica group instance and instance data node instances can be expressed in
            two classes.</p><simpletable>
            <strow>
              <stentry>SequoiaGroup</stentry>
              <stentry>Replica group class</stentry>
              <stentry>Replica group instance represents a separate replica group </stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>SequoiaNode</stentry>
              <stentry>Data node class</stentry>
              <stentry>data node instance represents a single data node </stentry>
            </strow>
            </simpletable><p>And requires the use of cluster-related operations and data replica
              group node instance.</p><p>Ecamples SequoiaGroup for management replica group. Its
                operations include start, stop replica groups, access to state replica group node
            name information, the number of messages. Examples SequoiaNode for managing node. Its
            operations include start, stop spectfied node for the specified node instance, to obtain
            a master-slave node instance, access to data node address information.</p></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Error Messages</title>
      <ul>
        <li>A function call is successful return true (or integer 1), otherwise the return value is false (or integer 0).</li>
        <li>If the user needs to know the details of the error message, you can call getError() to get the error message, if there is no error, then output "No error message"</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
