<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="developement_sdbcm_en">
  <title>SequoiaDB Cluster Manager</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>sdbcm overview</title>
      <p>SequoiaDB Cluster Manager is a daemon process，in Windows, it disposes the system background
        in the way of service. All of the Cluster Manager operations must have the participation of
        sdbcm in Sequoiadb, at present, each physical machine can only start a sdbcm process,
        responsible for executing the remote commands and Monitoring the local SequoiaDB. sdbcm
        mainly has two big functions：</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Remote starting, closing, creating and modifying nodes: Through SequoiaDB client or
            driving to connect to the database, then we can execute the operations of
            starting, closing, creating and modifying nodes, those operations send remote commands to
            sdbcm that the physical machine specified, and obtaining performance results.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>local monitoring: for the starting nodes by sdbcm, will maintain a table about nodes, it
            save all the service name of the local nodes and starting information, such as starting
            time、running status etc. If a node terminate in normal case, such as the process is
            forced to terminate、engine quit unexpectedly etc., then sdbcm will try restart this
            node.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>sdbcm operator </title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>conf files</p>
          <p>in the database installtion directory,  hava a conf file named <i>sdbcm.conf</i>, this
            file gives the conf information of starting sdbcm, as follows:</p>
          <simpletable id="developement_sdbcm_table">
            <sthead>
              <stentry>Param </stentry>
              <stentry>Desciption</stentry>
              <stentry>Example</stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow>
              <stentry>defaultPort  </stentry>
              <stentry>the default monitoring port of sdbcm </stentry>
              <stentry>defaultPort=11790</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>&lt;hostname>_Port   </stentry>
              <stentry>monitoring port of sdbcm in physical host.if it can't find the corresponding
                param of host in the conf file,sdbcm will start with  defaultPort; if defaultPort is
                also not exist ,then sdbcm will start the default port 11790</stentry>
              <stentry>&lt;hostname>_Port=11790  </stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>RestartCount</stentry>
              <stentry>number of restarts. That is define the max number of restarting  nodes for
                sdbcm. If the param doesn't exist,then default set to -1,that is constantly
                restart.</stentry>
              <stentry>RestartCount=5</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>RestartInterval</stentry>
              <stentry>restart interval, that is difine the max restart interval of sdbcm,the unit
                is minutes. This param combine with RestartCount define the max number of restarting
                nodes for sdbcm in the restart interval, when beyond,no longer restart.  If the
                param doesn't exist,then default set to 0, that is doesn'tconsider the restart
                interval .</stentry>
              <stentry>RestartInterval=0</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>start sdbcm</p>
          <p>running <i>sdbcmart</i> commands can start sdbcm.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>close sdbcm</p>
          <p>running <i>sdbcmtop</i> command can close sdbcm.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
