<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_31z_35h_hm">
  <title>$project</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      <p><b>$project</b> similar to thd SQL select statement, by using <b>$project</b> operations can filter out the required fields from the record, the value is 1 if ghe field name, 
      which means that elected to 0 means no election, can also be achieved rename fields.</p>
      <note>If the record does not exist for the selected field, then the following output format: <b>"field":null</b>, field to field name does not exist. Nested object using the dot 
        operator(.)</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Example</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Use <b>$project</b> quickly select from a focus on the results of field Related information required. 
          <codeblock>db.collectionspace.collection.aggregate({ $project : {title: 0,author: 1}})</codeblock><p>This operation is selected author field, while title field in the result set is not output.</p></li>
        <li>Use <b>$project</b> rename the field name, as follows: 
          <codeblock>db.collectionspace.collection.aggregate({ $project : {author: 1,name:"$studentName",dep:"$info.department"}})</codeblock><p>This operation will rename the field names studentName 
            name to output, the info object in the field of child objects department rename dep. Nested object field references using the dot operator (.) Point.</p></li>
        <li>The following example uses $project to select the output field, then use <xref href="match_en.dita">$match</xref> conditional matching records.
          <codeblock>db.collectionspace.collection.aggregate({ $project: {score:1,author:1}},{<xref href="match_en.dita">$match</xref>:{score:{$gt:80}}})</codeblock><p>This output using $project 
            and author of all score field values, and then press the $match record output matching conditions.
            <note>Due $project selected output field names, field names so <xref href="match_en.dita">$match</xref> $project must be selected field name.</note></p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="match_en.dita" format="dita" type="topic"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
