<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_mns_2z4_fm">
  <title>Data Recovery</title>
  <body>    
    <p>Use a replica group data recovery backup. Perform data recovery must ensure that the corresponding group has stopped tunning, data recovery will first clear the original node and log all 
    the data and then restore the data from the backup configuration data and logs.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Data recovery tool Parameter Description</title>
      <simpletable>        
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Parameter</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>-p [--bkpath]</stentry>
          <stentry>Backup source where the data path.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>-i [--increaseid]</stentry>
          <stentry>Requires several incremental backups to restore to default back to the last time.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>-n [--bkname]</stentry>
          <stentry>Need to restore the backup name.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>-a [--action]</stentry>
          <stentry>Recovery behavior, "restore" indicates that the recobery, "list" indicates view backup information, defaults to "restore".</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--isSelf</stentry>
          <stentry>Whether to restore the node data, the default is "true", when the value is "false", according to the following parameters to restore the data to the specified path:</stentry>
        </strow>        
        <strow>
          <stentry>--dbpath</stentry>
          <stentry>Must configure the data file directory.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--confpath</stentry>
          <stentry>Must configure the configuration file path.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--svcname</stentry>
          <stentry>Must configure the local service name or port.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--indexpath</stentry>
          <stentry>Indes file directory.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--logpath</stentry>
          <stentry>Log file directory.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--diagpath</stentry>
          <stentry>Diagnostic log file directory.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--bkuppath</stentry>
          <stentry>Backup file directory.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--replname</stentry>
          <stentry>Copy communications service name or port.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--shardname</stentry>
          <stentry>Slice communications service name or port.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--catalogname</stentry>
          <stentry>Catalog communicatios service name or port.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>--httpname</stentry>
          <stentry>REST service name or port.</stentry>
        </strow>        
      </simpletable></section>
    <section>
      <title>Recover Data</title>           
    </section>
    <note>If a replica group that contains multiple data nodes, you must stop the group and recover each data node. If the data is restored to a non-backup data nodes must use --isSelf false 
    configuration parameters, and set the relevant configuration parameters.</note>
    <ol>
      <li>Connect to the coord node
        <codeblock>$ /opt/sequoiadb/bin/sdb
> var db = new Sdb("localhost", 11810) ;</codeblock></li>
      <li>Get replica group <codeblock>> datarg = db.getRG ( "data" ) ;</codeblock></li>
      <li>Stop replica group <codeblock>> datarg.stop()</codeblock></li>
      <li>Login via terminal nodes corresponding data replica group, perform data recovery.
        <codeblock>sdbadmin@vmsvr2-suse-x64-1:/opt/sequoiadb> bin/sdbrestore -p  database/11820/bakfile -n test_bk
Begin to clean dps logs...
Begin to clean dms storages...
Begin to init dps logs...
Begin to restore...
Begin to restore data file: 11820/bakfile/test_bk.1 ...
Begin to restore su: test.1.data ...
Begin to restore su: test.1.idx ...
Begin to restore dps logs...
*****************************************************
Restore succeed!
*****************************************************</codeblock></li>
      <li>Check the file to a data node directory is
        restored.<codeblock>sdbadmin @vmsvr2-suse-x64-1:/ opt/sequoiadb /database/11820> ls -l
total 299156
drwxr-xr-x 2 sdbadmin sdbadmin      4096 Nov 13 16:06 bakfile
drwxr-xr-x 2 sdbadmin sdbadmin      4096 Nov 13 15:48 diaglog
drwxr-xr-x 2 sdbadmin sdbadmin      4096 Nov 13 17:39 replicalog
-rw-r----- 1 sdbadmin sdbadmin 155254784 Nov 13 17:39 test.1.data
-rw-r----- 1 sdbadmin sdbadmin 151060480 Nov 13 17:39 test.1.idx</codeblock></li>
      <li>Delete the replica groups other data, all data nodes (or all the nodes. Data and. Idx files are copied to the other data node's data directory and index directory, and copy all the logs that node 
      replicalog to other data nodes log directory, or copy the backup file to another data node, and through the restored tool recovers), restart the system.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
