<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_2ny_sdd_wj">
  <title>Java Driver</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Outline</title>   
      <p>SequoiaDB Java driver provides an interface database operations, and cluster operations. Includes the following seven levels of operation: database, collection space, collection, cursor, replica group, node, domain, lob.</p>
      <p>There are two driving Java class instances. A database operation, another operation for the cluster. </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Class sample</p>
          <p>There are 3 degree of data  in SequoiaDB:</p>
          <p>&nbsp;1) Database</p>
          <p>&nbsp;2) Collection space</p>
          <p>&nbsp;3) Collection</p>
          <p>Logically, every collection space in SequoiaDB has no physical upper boundary. Every
            collection space is stored in a stand-alone file. So the amount of collection space
            depends on the size of disk and memory.</p>
          <p>A collection space contains at most 4096 collections. Every collection can contain more
            than one record. In a physical system, the size of a collection space is at most
            256GB.</p>
          <p>Compared with relation database, we can regard record as line in relation database. We
            can regard collection as table in relation database. </p>
          <p>So in client, there are 3 Handles representing connection, collectionspace and collection, including 1 handle represents cursor, 1 handle represents LOB:</p><simpletable>
              <strow>
                <stentry>Sequoiadb </stentry>
                <stentry>Database instance </stentry>
                <stentry>It represents a stand-alone connection </stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>CollectionSpace </stentry>
                <stentry>Collection space instance </stentry>
                <stentry>It represents a stand-alone collection space</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>DBCollection</stentry>
                <stentry>Collection instance</stentry>
                <stentry>It represents a stand-alone collection</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>DBCursor</stentry>
                <stentry>Cursor Instance</stentry>
                <stentry>It represents a result set of a query</stentry>
              </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>DBLob</stentry>
              <stentry>LOB instance</stentry>
              <stentry>Represents a LOB</stentry>
            </strow>
            </simpletable>
            <note>
              <p>SequoiaDB only builds one Socket connection, and it does not lock the network operation internally. If more threads are needed to connect the database, each thread must create a new Sequoiadb object by itself respectively, and also the CollectionSpace/DBColltion/DBCursor objects belong to each Sequoiadb.</p>
            </note>          
        </li>
        <li>Cluster Operation
          <p>SequoiaDB database mainly has three levels of cluster operations:</p><p>1)	Replica Group</p><p>2) Data Node</p><p>3)	Domain</p>
          <note>There are two types of replica group: Catalog Replica Group and Data Replica Group.</note>
          <p>Replica group instance and data node instance can be represented by the instance of the following three classes.</p>
          <simpletable>
            <strow>
              <stentry>ReplicaGroup</stentry>
              <stentry>Replica group class</stentry>
              <stentry>Each instance stands for a single replica group</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>Node</stentry>
              <stentry>Data node class</stentry>
              <stentry>Each instance stands for a single data node</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>sdbDomain</stentry>
              <stentry>Domain class</stentry>
              <stentry>Each instance stands for a domain which</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable>
          <p>Replica group and data node instances are needed for the cluster-related operations.</p>
          <p>A ReplicaGroup instance is used to manipulate the replica groups. Its operations include start/stop the replica groups, get the status, name, and amount of the nodes in the replica groups.</p>
          <p>A Node instance is used to manipulate the node. Its operations include start/stop the node, get the specified node instances, obtain the master-slave node example, get data node address information.</p>
          <p>A sdbDomain instance is used to manipulate the domain. Its operations include modify the domains, and get the information of the domains.</p></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Error Information</title>
      <ul>
        <li><p>When excecution exceptions occur, most APIs will throw com.sequoiadb.exception.BaseExceptio or java.lang.Exception, correspond to the exception info returned from the database engine or returned from local client respectively.</p></li>
        <li>BaseException’s exception detailed info can be gotten by the class’s getErrorType(), getErrorCode() and getMessage() methods.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
