<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_yyl_fly_wj">
  <title>安装 SequoiaDB</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Preparation before installation</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Ensure that the system support the requirement of installation, content and disk</li>
        <li>Log in on the role of root to install SequoiaDB database service </li>
        <li>Check the mapping between SequoiaDB package and OS</li>
        <li>If you choose to install through GUI mode, please make sure that X server service is
          running</li>
        <li>Check whether the server has set hostname, and it can generate network connection with
          other servers (For example, ssh hostname)</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <note>SequoiaDB installation wizard doesn't support non-English characters.</note>
    <section>
      <title>Installation steps</title>
      <p><b>Explaination</b></p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;(1) Here we take sequoiadb-1.0.0-linux-x86_64-installer.run as the sample
        installation package.</p>
      <p>&nbsp;&nbsp;(2) The steps are introduced through command lines. In GUI installation, users
        can install server program accoding to image wizard prompts.</p>
      <note>If there are more than one server, users should repeatedly install server program on them one by one according to the following steps.</note>
      <ul>
        <li><p>Refer <xref href="../../system_require/topics/software_en.dita">System configuration
          requirement </xref> to configure Host Name and change the system kernel params.</p></li>
        <li>Run installation program<p>
            <codeblock>./sequoiadb-1.0.0-linux-x86_64-installer.run --mode text --SMS false</codeblock>
        </p></li>
        <li>The system prompt you to choose wizard language <p>
          <codeblock>Language Selection 
Please select the installation language
[1] English - English       
[2] Simplified Chinese - 简体中文         
Please choose an option [1] :1 </codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Input 1 to choose English, then the system prompt you to input installation catalog
            <p><codeblock>----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Created with an evaluation version of BitRock InstallBuilder

Welcome to the SequoiaDB Server Setup Wizard.

IMPORTANT: READ CAREFULLY

Two license agreements are presented below.

1. SequoiaDB License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs

2. SequoiaDB End-User License Agreement

If Licensee is obtaining the Program for purposes of productive use (other than evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration): By clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts the SequoiaDB End-User License Agreement, without modification.

If Licensee is obtaining the Program for the purpose of evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration (collectively, an "Evaluation"): By clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts both (i) the SequoiaDB License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (the "Evaluation License"), without modification; and (ii) the SequoiaDB End-User License Agreement (the "SELA"), without modification.

The Evaluation License will apply during the term of Licensee's Evaluation.

The SELA will automatically apply if Licensee elects to retain the Program after the Evaluation (or obtain additional copies of the Program for use after the Evaluation) by entering into a procurement agreement.

The Evaluation License and the SELA are not in effect concurrently; neither modifies the other; and each is independent of the other.

The complete text of each of these two license agreements follow.


License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs

[1] Agree The License: For More License's Detail, Please Check The License File After Installation
[2] Read The License
Please choose an option [1] :</codeblock></p></li>
              <li><p>是否同意协议：<codeblock>----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agree The License

Press [Enter] to continue :

Do you accept this license? [y/n]:</codeblock></p></li>
              <li><p>按 y 表示同意：<codeblock>----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Please specify the directory where SequoiaDB Server will be installed.

Installation Directory [/opt/sequoiadb]:</codeblock></p></li> 
        <li>After inputting the installation path(installed in <i>/opt/sequoiadb</i> in default). Then you are prompted to enter a user name which used to run <i>sequoiadb service</i><p>
            <codeblock>Confiture user information
Please insert the desired username and password
User Name [sdbadmin]:</codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Pressing <i>enter</i> after inputting the user name(creating <i>sdbadmin</i> user in
          default). Then system prompts you to enter password and confirmed password
        <p><codeblock>Password [********] :
Re-enter [********] :</codeblock></p></li>
        <li><p>After inputing password twice (The default password is sdbadmin), the system will
            prompt you to set service
            port</p><codeblock>----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SDBCM Port

SequoiaDB Cluster Manager port

Port [11790]:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------</codeblock><note>Service ports of
            all servers should be the same.</note></li>
        <li> Input port (The default port is 11790). The system prompts the user to confirm the installation began.
          <p></p></li>
        <li> Asked whether to allow sequoiadb processes related to boot from the start.
          <codeblock>----------------------------------------------------------------
Whether to allow Sequoiadb related processes related to boot from the start.</codeblock></li>
        <li> Sequoiadb processes related to boot from the start [Y/n]:Y Input Y, press enter, sequoiadb related processes to boot from the start.<p><codeblock>----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Setup is now ready to begin installing SequoiaDB Server on your computer.

Do you want to continue? [Y/n]:</codeblock> </p></li>
        <li><p>Input "Y" and press return key.  Then the system begin to install. After about 1
        minute, installation is finiched</p><p><codeblock>Installing SequoiaDB Server to your computer,please wait for a moment.
Installing 
0% ______________ 50% ______________100%
#########################################
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SequoiaDB Server Program has been installed to your computer.</codeblock></p></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
