<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qcm_qzy_3k">
  <title>C API</title>
  <body>
    <p>This part is related to C API document.</p>
    <p><xref href="..\..\..\..\c\html\index.html" format="html">C API</xref></p>
    <section>
      <title>History Updates:</title>
      <p><b>Version 1.10</b></p>
      <p>1. Added the interface to get visiting plan of the queries.</p><codeblock>sdbExplain, Get visiting plan of the queries.</codeblock>
      <p>2. Added interfaces for operations of LOBs.</p><codeblock>sdbListLobs, list all LOBs in the collection
sdbOpenLob, create or open a LOB
sdbCloseLob, close a LOB
sdbRemoveLob, delete a LOB
sdbSeekLob, set the start position of read operations (in this version, seek is only used for read operations)
sdbReadLob, read data from LOB
sdbWriteLob, writes data to LOB
sdbGetLobSize, get the size of a LOB
sdbGetLobCreateTime, get the creating time of a LOB</codeblock>
      <p><b>Version 1.8</b></p>
      <p>New APIs in C:</p><codeblock>sdbConnect1, multiple connection address can be provided, one of the random valid addresses will be used to connect to database
sdbCreateCollectionSpaceV2, a BSON parameter is provided to make the creating of a collection space more flexible
sdbAlterCollection, alters the attributes of a collection
sdbCreateDomain, creates a domain
sdbDropDomain, drops a domain
sdbGetDomain, gets a domain
sdbListDomains, enumerates and lists the domains
sdbReleaseDomain, releases the domain handle
sdbAlterDomain, alters the attributes of a domain</codeblock>
      <p><b>Version 1.6</b></p>
      <p>1. Use sdbNodeHandle to replace the original sdbReplicaNodeHandle. sdbReplicaNodeHandle will be abandoned in the version2.x.</p>
      <p>2. Use the concept of "node" to replace the original "replica node". And "replica node" related API interface will remain until version2.x will be abandoned.</p>
      <p>For details, please see the relevant API.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
