<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_kmr_n2s_wj_en">
  <title>C Driver</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Outline</title>
      <p>C client application is mainly to provide database connection, collectionspaces, collections, cursor, replica group, node, domain, lob. <xref href="..\..\..\..\..\c\html\index.html" format="html"
        >More refer to the online C API</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Handle</title>
      <p>The handle of C client-driven is divided into two types. One is used to operate databases, the other is used to operate clusters.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Database Operation Handle <p>There are 3 degrees of data in SequoiaDB:</p><p>&nbsp;1)
            Database</p><p>&nbsp;2) Collection space</p><p>&nbsp;3) Collection</p><p>Logically,
            every collection space in SequoiaDB has no physical upper boundary. Every collection
            space is stored in a stand-alone file. So the amount of collection space depends on the
            size of disk and memory. </p><p>A collection space contains at most 4096 collections.
            Every collection can contain more than one record. In a physical system, the size of a
            collection space is at most 256GB.</p><p>Compared with relation database, we can regard
            record as line in relation database. We can regard collection as table in relation
            database. </p><p>So in client, there are 3 Handles representing connection, collectionspace and collection, including 1 handle represents cursor, 1 handle represents LOB:</p><simpletable>
            <strow>
              <stentry>sdbConnectionHandle </stentry>
              <stentry>Database instance </stentry>
              <stentry>It represents a stand-alone connection </stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>sdbCSHandle </stentry>
              <stentry>CollectionSpace instance </stentry>
              <stentry>It represents a stand-alone collection space</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>sdbCollectionHandle</stentry>
              <stentry>Collection instance </stentry>
              <stentry>It represents a stand-alone collection</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>sdbCursorHandle</stentry>
              <stentry>Cursor instance </stentry>
              <stentry>It represents a result set of a query</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry>sdbLobHandle</stentry>
              <stentry>LOB's handle</stentry>
              <stentry>Represent a LOB</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable><p>C client-driven application operate with different handles. For
            example, reading data will use Cursor Handle, then creating collectionspace uses database
            connection Handle.</p><note>
            <p>1. As for a connection, in its collection space, collections share one socket. So in
              mutiple-thread system, the system should guarantee that the socket can be used merely
              by one thread whenever.</p>
            <p>2. Generally, it is not recommended to manipulate a connection instance and other
              instance, which it generates, with more than threads.</p>
            <p> 3、If each thread merely use its own connection instance and other instances it
              generates, it is thread-safe. </p>
          </note></li>
        <li>Cluster Operation Handle<p>There are three degrees of cluster operation in
          SequoiaDB:</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;1) Replica Group</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;2) Data Node</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;3) Domain</p><note>
            <p>Replica group contain two tpyes: Catalog ReplicaGroup, Data ReplicaGroup.</p>
          </note><p>ReplicaGroup instances and Data Node instances can be represented by the following
            three types of Handles.<simpletable>
              <strow>
                <stentry> sdbReplicaGroupHandle </stentry>
                <stentry>ReplicaGroup Handle </stentry>
                <stentry> It represents a stand-alone ReplicaGroup </stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry> sdbNodeHandle </stentry>
                <stentry>Data Node Handle </stentry>
                <stentry> It represents a stand-alone Data Node</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry> sdbDomainHandle </stentry>
                <stentry>Domain Handle </stentry>
                <stentry>It represents a stand-alone Domain</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable></p><p>Cluster-related operations need to use ReplicaSet Handle and Data
            Node Handle.</p><p>The sdbReplicaGroupHandle instants is to manage replica groups, including
            starting and stopping replica groups, getting the status, name-information and
            number-information of nodes in the replica group. </p><p>The sdbNodeHandle instants is to
            manage Data Nodes,including starting and stopping the specified data node,getting the
            specified data node instants and maste-slave data node instants and address-information
            of data node. </p><p>The sdbDomainHandle is used to modify, obtain the domain information.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Error Information</title>
      <p>Each function has its returned value, the definition of the returned value is:</p>      
      <p>SDB_OK (value is 0): Execution succeeds.</p>
      <p>&lt; 0: Database error, the detailed error description can be found in the include/ossErr.h directory of the C driver development kit.</p>
      <p>> 0: System error, please check the related error code information.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
