<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="administration_concepts_cluster_mode">
  <title>Mode</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Concept</title>
      <p>Mode means the approach of starting SequoiaDB service. Generally, it is independent mode or cluster mode.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Independent Mode</title>
      <p>Independent mode is the briefest mode to start SequoiaDB. It merely needs to start a data
          node<xref href="data_node_en.dita"> of independent mode</xref> before having data
        service.</p>
      <p>Under independent mode, SequoiaDB Database is a independent process which doesn't need to communicate with other clients.All the data is stored in data nodes.</p>
      <p>In a database started under independent mode, it is not allowed to split space or replicate
        data. So it is not recommended to use independent mode if high data security is
        required.</p>
      <p>In a database start under independent mode, there is no catalogue information.</p>
      <p>It is recommended to use independent mode in development environment in order to reduce
        requirement of hard resource.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Cluster Mode</title>
      <p>Cluster mode is the standard mode to start SequoiaDB, which require 3 nodes.</p>
      <p>Under cluser mode, SequoiaDB needs 3 kinds of roles: </p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="data_node_en.dita">data node</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="catalog_node_en.dita">catalogue node</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="coord_node_en.dita">coordinating node</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <p>The minimum configuration under cluster mode contains at least one of each kind of roles,
        which is essential to build a complete cluster mode.</p>
      <p>Under cluster mode,client and application can connect to coordinating node directly. Other
        kind of nodes are invisible to them.</p> <p>Applications care nothing about the location of
        data in data nodes. Coord node can analyze request that it receives and automatically send
        it to relevant data nodes.</p>
      <p>Under cluster mode, data set is unvisable to each other.In order to achieve data
        consistence, the data replication among nodes within a data set is asynchronous.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
