<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="administration_concepts_cluster_replset_replicate">
  <title>Replicate</title>
  <body>  
    <section><title>Concept</title>
      <p>Data replication is synchronously executed between two nodes in a ReplicaGroup.</p>
      <p>Any insertion, deletion or alteration in data nodes or catalog nodes will be recored in a
        log file. SequoiaDB puts the log file in a log cache, and then asynchronously stores it in
        disk memory.</p>
      <p>Every data replication is executed between nodes:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Source Node</dt>
          <dd>It is a kind of node containing new data. Master is not always the source node in the
            process of replication.Slave node can also be a source node.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Target Node</dt>
          <dd>It is a node to copy data for a request.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>In the process of replication between 2 nodes, the target node chooses the closest node to
        it, then sends a replicaition request to it. After the source node gets the request,it will
        package all the log records after the synchronous timeline provided by the source node and
        send them to the target node. </p>
      <p>The target node copes with all the manipulation in log files after revieving data
        package.</p>
      <p>There are 2 statuses in the replication between nodes：</p>
      <ul>
        <li>PEER: When the log files requested by a target node is still stored in the log cache of
          source node, the status of the two nodes is PEER.</li>
        <li>Remote Catchup: When the log files requested by the target node is not stored in the log
          cache of source node and is still stored in the log file of source node, the status of the
          2 nodes is "Remote Catchup".</li>
      </ul>
      <p>If the log files requested by the target node is not stored in the log file of source node,
        the target node will enter the status of <xref href="sync_en.dita">full sync</xref></p>
      <p>Regarding the status of PEER, the system can directly read data from RAM in response to
        sync request. So when target node choose source node, it attempts to choose the closest node
        according to current log files. In this way, it can save time by reading data from RAM in
        most cases.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="vote_en.dita"/>
    <link href="sync_en.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
