<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="administration_concepts_shardingkey">
  <title>Sharding Key</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Concept</title>
      <p>Sharding key difines the sharding rules of data in every collection. Every colleciton
        corresponds a sharding key. A sharding key contains one or more fields.</p>
      <p>In catalog node, every collection has its own sharding range. In sharding range, every
        range segment corresponds to a sharding group, which shows that certain data segment is in
        the sharding group.</p>
      <note>
        <p>When creating a collection, index key of it is specified. After collection is created,
          index key is unalterable.</p>
        <p>In <xref href="sharded_collection_en.dita">sharded collection</xref>, after a record is
          inserted into database, the sharding key is not allowed to be updated.</p>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Format</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Range sharding Key
          <p>The format of  sharding key is similar to index key, which is a JSON object. Every field in
            JSON object corresponds to a field in sharding key. The value is "1" or "-1", respectively
            representing forward order or reverse order.</p><codeblock>{ &lt;field 1&gt; : &lt;1|-1&gt; [, &lt;field 2&gt; : &lt;1|-1&gt; ...] }</codeblock></li>
        <li>Hash Sharding Key <p>Hash partition Sharding Key composition identical with Range partitioning (but field forward/reverse does not work).Partition represents
          a hash slice number. The default is 2^12, on behalf of our entire range is divided into 4096 the average slice. Design hash fragmentation purpose is to allow
          data distribution is more flesible and can be freely set each bear hash slice data partition range. Sharding Type if you do not fill it defaults to Reange partition.
          <codeblock>{ShardingKey:{&lt;field 1>:&lt;1|-1> [,&lt;field 2>:&lt;1|-1>, ...]}, {ShardingType:"hash"}  [, {Partition:&lt;number of fragments>}]}</codeblock></p></li>
      </ul>
      <!--<p>The format of  sharding key is similar to index key, which is a JSON object. Every field in
        JSON object corresponds to a field in sharding key. The value is "1" or "-1", respectively
        representing forward order or reverse order.</p>
      <codeblock>{ &lt;field 1&gt; : &lt;1|-1&gt; [, &lt;field 2&gt; : &lt;1|-1&gt; ...] }</codeblock>-->
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
      <ul>
        <li>A sharding key containing 2 fields, forward sequence and reverse sequence is as follow: <codeblock>{ Field1 : 1, Field2 : -1 }</codeblock></li>
        <li>Hash Sharding Key
          <codeblock>{{ Field1 : 1, Field2 : -1 },{ShardingType:"hash"},{Partition:2^12}}</codeblock></li>
      </ul>      
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="sharded_collection_en.dita"></link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
