<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="administration_concepts_cluster_node_catalog_syscollections">
  <title>SYSCOLLECTIONS Collection</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Collection Space</title>
      <p>SYSCAT</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Concept</title>
      <p>SYSTASKS collection contains information of all user collections. Information of a user
        collection is saved in a corresponding file. </p>
      <p>Every file contains the following fields:</p>
      <simpletable><!-- frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 2.26*"
        id="administration_concepts_cluster_node_catalog_syscollections_table1">-->
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Field Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Descrption</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Name</stentry>
          <stentry>String</stentry>
          <stentry>Full name of a collection. The form is &lt;collection space&gt;.&lt;collection
            name&gt;.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Version</stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
          <stentry>Version number of the collection, starts with 1. It increases by 1 after any
            metadata alteration on the collection.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ReplSize</stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
          <stentry>The minimum replica group, to ensure that any write operation must be copied to at least return after a specified number of nodes success.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ShardingKey</stentry>
          <stentry>Object</stentry>
          <stentry>ShardingKey is in sharding collections. It contains one or more fields. The field
            name is its sharding field name. The value is 1 or -1, which represents forward or
            reserve sequencing.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ShardingType</stentry>
          <stentry>String</stentry>
          <stentry>Partition types: the presence in the partition collection. Partition types: range partitioning(Range) and hash partitioning(Hash) two.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Partition</stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
          <stentry>The partition size of the hash value must be a power of 2.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>CataInfo</stentry>
          <stentry>Array</stentry>
          <stentry>Information of logical nodes of a collection. In a single sharding collection,
            the arrary contains only one element, which represents the replset of the collection. In
            a multiple sharding collection, the array contains one or more elements, which represent
            the replset which covers all the ranges of values in the collection. Every range of
            values includes two value: LowBound and UpBound, which respectively represent floor and
            ceiling. The interval  is left-close and right-open.</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>    
    </section>
    <section><title>Sample</title>
      <p>A typical single sharding collection is as follow:</p>
      <codeblock>{ "Name" : "test.foo", "Version" : 1, "CataInfo" : [ { "GroupID" : 1000 } ] }</codeblock>
      <p>A typical multiple sharding collection is as follow:</p>
      <codeblock>{ "Name" : "foo.test", 
  "Version" : 1, 
  "ShardingKey" : { "Field1" : 1, "Field2" : -1 },
  "ShardingType" : "range" ,
  "ReplSize": 3,
  "CataInfo" : [ 
     { "GroupID" : 1000, 
       "LowBound" : { "" : MinKey, "" : MaxKey },
       "UpBound" : { "" : MaxKey, "" : MinKey } } ] 
  }</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
