<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="sequoiadb_features">
  <title>Features</title>
  <body>
    <p>With corporation requirements being more and more complex and diverse, and business being
      rapidly expanded and producing vast data, IT departments need to provide their users with more
      and more information. Meanwhile under the current background of economy, IT department needs
      to not only offer efficient service but also reduce the cost of device and program
      maintenance.</p>
    <p>SequoiaDB database provides massive cluster data platform based on PC server, enables IT
      departments to provide steady, dependable and efficient data service, and greatly reduce the
      cost of development, device and program maintenance of applications in IT departments.</p>
    <p>Through deploying and using SequoiaDB database, users can gain:</p>
    <section>
      <title>Horizontal Scalability</title>
      <p>Traditional relation database cannot acheive horizontal scalability, but SequoiaDB can
        perfectly solve this problem. Through vertical splitting of data and the application of
        non-relation data model, SequoiaDB greatly break through the bottleneck of massive data
        exchange within shardings in relation database. In this way, it acheive horizontal
        scalability.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Permanent High-useability</title>
      <p>SequoiaDB stores multiple real-time copies of every piece of data, in order to prevent the
        system from going down caused by problems of server, machine room or human false, and keeps
        data availibale on line in 24x7 hours.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Complete Corporation Support</title>
      <p>SequoiaDB provides corporation with user-friendly and complete management, maintenance and
        monitoring user interface, and 24x7-hour telephone and present technical support.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Strengthened Non-relation Data Module</title>
      <p>SequoiaDB uses the structure called JSON, flexibly simplifies the data maintenance in
        relation database. In SequoiaDB, data is stored in type of object according to the
        requirement of applications, which greatly reduce the cost of developmetn and maintenance of
        application.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Data Eventual Consistency</title>
      <p>SequoiaDB guarantees data eventual consistency in the massive distributed infrastructure,
        which meets users' requirement of real-time manipulation and data consistency.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Combination of On-line Applications and Big Data Analysis</title>
      <p>In SequoiaDB, data analysis programs and on-line application in the same system are
        invisible to each other because of read/write splitting. Big data analysis is acheive
        through Hadoop technology.</p>
    </section>
    <p>SequoiaDB is the first corporation file-based non-relation database in the world. It is aimed
      at serving users with a distributed data platform with high-scability, high-useability,
      high-quality and easy to maintain. SequoiaDB meets users' needs of big data analysis and low
      cost.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
